Title: Is External Database Protection Static in Retrieval-Augmented Generation? Rethinking Privacy Preservation under Dynamic Queries

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2607.14811v1

Published Time: Fri, 17 Jul 2026 01:00:47 GMT

Number of Pages: 18

Markdown Content:
> JOURNAL OF L ATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 1

# Is External Database Protection Static in Retrieval-Augmented Generation? Rethinking Privacy Preservation under Dynamic Queries 

Gang Zhang 1, Mingyu Tian 1, Xukun Luan 1, Yuanchi Ma 2, Jinyan Liu 11School of Computer Science and Technology, Beijing Institute of Technology , Beijing, China 

2Department of Computer Science and Technology, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China 

Abstract —Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) enhances large language models via external document retrieval, but re-trieved contexts may leak sensitive information. Current privacy protection methods typically rely on a document-level static risk assumption, treating all retrieved documents as having the same privacy leakage risk. However, this assumption overlooks a fundamental characteristic of RAG: the privacy risk of a document is highly dependent on the user’s query, making privacy leakage inherently query-driven and dynamic. To address this challenge, we propose a Prompt-Aware Dynamic Hierarchical Differential Privacy framework (PA-HDP) for privacy-preserving RAG. PA-HDP first performs a prompt-aware risk hierarchy to dynamically assess privacy risks under different queries. It then applies adaptive sensitive entity replacement and exponential mechanism-based text selection to provide differentiated privacy protection while preserving semantic utility. By protecting only the content that is truly sensitive under a given query, PA-HDP minimizes unnecessary modifications to the retrieval corpus. Extensive experiments on benchmark datasets demonstrate that PA-HDP significantly reduces privacy leakage while maintaining high retrieval quality, achieving a better privacy–utility trade-off than prior methods. 

Index Terms —Retrieval-augmented generation; Differential privacy; Privacy protection; Large language models. 

I. I NTRODUCTION 

The emergence of Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) technology has significantly mitigated the core challenges prevalent in large language models (LLMs) [1], such as factual inaccuracies and content hallucinations [2]. By deeply integrat-ing external knowledge bases with LLMs, RAG first retrieves the most relevant document segments from the knowledge repository based on the user’s query prior to response gen-eration. These retrieved results are then fed into the model as contextual information, thereby guiding the model to produce more accurate and reliable outputs. Currently, RAG technol-ogy has been widely adopted in high-stakes domains where information accuracy is paramount, including healthcare [3], finance [4], and government services [5]. However, when the external knowledge base of a RAG system contains a large amount of sensitive information, such as patient medical records and personally identifiable information (PII), the retrieved text segments often contain highly sensitive content [6]. This sensitive information may be leaked by large language models through various means, including direct verbatim reproduction, indirect inference, and gradual reconstruction, leading to uncontrollable privacy risks. Multiple studies [7]–[9] have pointed out that RAG systems face severe privacy and security challenges when the retrieval process involves private data. Therefore, enhancing the privacy protection capabilities of RAG systems and preventing the leakage of retrieved data are crucial for preventing unautho-rized access and misuse of data [10]. Differential Privacy (DP) [11] offers a mathematically rigor-ous solution to this challenge. By injecting carefully calibrated noise into the data, DP guarantees that an adversary cannot determine with high confidence whether a specific individual’s record is present in the dataset, even if they have access to all other records. Several existing works have leveraged DP to protect the privacy of retrieved contexts in RAG systems. Koga et al. [12] proposed selective privacy budget allocation to sensitive tokens to support accurate long-form generation under constrained budgets. Grislain [10] further demonstrated the feasibility of applying DP to token-level generation in RAG. Beyond token-level protection, some works have also explored document-level privacy mechanisms [13]. Mori et al. [14] proposed a differentially private synthetic text generation approach that replaces sensitive documents with DP-compliant synthetic alternatives, mitigating leakage at the data source. The aforementioned studies have provided valuable insights into privacy protection for retrieved contexts in RAG systems. However, these methods share a fundamental limitation: they are all based on the document-level static privacy risk assump-tion, which presumes that all retrieved documents carry an equal risk of privacy leakage. This overlooks the critical fact that the privacy leakage risk of the same document is highly dependent on the specific content of the user’s query ( prompt ). For instance, for the same internal company document, a query asking to ”summarize the company’s cultural philosophy” poses almost no privacy risk, while a query requesting to ”list the names and contact information of all department employees” will lead to severe privacy leakage. This implies that the privacy protection process in RAG systems should essentially be a query-driven dynamic process rather than the document-level static process currently widely adopted. 

To address the inherent limitations of the aforementioned static privacy protection methods, this paper proposes aPrompt-Aware Dynamic Hierarchical Differential Privacy (PA-HDP) protection method. In particular, this method introduces arXiv:2607.14811v1 [cs.CR] 16 Jul 2026 JOURNAL OF L ATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 2

a prompt-driven fine-grained privacy risk assessment mecha-nism into the retrieval phase of RAG systems. First, it performs sentence-level sensitive semantic recognition on the retrieved contexts based on the user’s query ( prompt ), and divides the text segments into different privacy risk levels according to the type of sensitive information, the severity of leakage harm, and the relevance to the query intent. Then, for text content at different risk levels, we design an adaptive candidate selection strategy based on the exponential mechanism, where different privacy budgets are assigned according to the risk level. Specifically, a diverse candidate set is first generated through semantically equivalent replacement of sensitive entities. The exponential mechanism then selects a protected text from the candidate set that satisfies differential privacy constraints while preserving the highest possible semantic fidelity. This method can achieve an optimal trade-off between privacy security and model generation utility without compromising the semantic coherence and information integrity of the original context. Our experimental results show that using our algorithm can achieve comparable performance with using original data while substantially reducing the associated privacy risks. Our contributions are summarized as follows : 1. An important yet underexplored research question has been raised. We point out the prevalent flaw of document-level static risk assumption in RAG privacy protection and reveal the query-dependent dynamic pri-vacy leakage problem. 2. A Prompt-Aware Dynamic Hierarchical Differential Privacy framework (PA-HDP) is proposed. We pro-pose a Prompt-Aware Dynamic Hierarchical Differential Privacy protection framework. The framework integrates risk stratification, adaptive sensitive entity replacement, and exponential mechanism-based text selection to pro-vide differentiated privacy protection while preserving semantic utility. 3. The experiments verified the effectiveness of the pro-posed method. Extensive experimental results demon-strate that, under the premise of strictly satisfying the mathematical constraints of differential privacy, the PA-HDP method can significantly reduce the semantic loss of generated content and achieves a better trade-off between privacy and model utility. II. R ELATED WORK 

Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) improves the fac-tuality of large language models but introduces new privacy risks, as sensitive information contained in retrieved docu-ments may be exposed through generated responses. Ensuring strong privacy guarantees is therefore critical, with differential privacy emerging as a principled and widely adopted frame-work for mitigating information leakage. Existing privacy-preserving RAG approaches can be broadly categorized into three directions: (1) token-level generation protection based on differential privacy, (2) protection based on external databases, and (3) other privacy protection methods. 

A. Privacy protection for Token-level Generation 

These methods directly apply differential privacy mecha-nisms during the LLM decoding phase, injecting noise into token probability distributions or logits to limit the leakage of retrieved information. Early work [12] explored the funda-mental challenges of differentially private RAG, namely how to generate accurate long text under limited privacy budgets, and proposed a strategy that allocates budgets only to sensitive tokens. InvisibleInk [15] interprets next-token sampling as an exponential mechanism over logits, reducing privacy costs by isolating sensitive information in public versus private logits, and samples from a superset of top-k private tokens to improve utility, achieving an 8-fold reduction in computational cost under the same privacy level. Privacy-Aware Decoding (PAD) [16] is a lightweight inference-time defense that adaptively adds calibrated Gaussian noise to token logits, combining confidence filtering with efficient sensitivity estimation, pro-tecting only high-risk tokens in a model-agnostic manner with very low computational overhead. A complementary work [10] further validates the feasibility of differential privacy based token generation in private RAG scenarios. PEARL [17] proposes an adaptive differential privacy decoding framework based on confidence gaps and entropy regulation, dynamically allocating privacy budgets at both token and sentence lev-els, focusing protection on personally identifiable information fragments. 

B. Privacy protection for External Databases 

The core objective of these methods is to directly protect the retrieved original documents so that LLMs or attackers cannot access sensitive content. VAGUE-Gate [13] proposes a plug-and-play LDP protection mechanism that performs budget-constrained token filtering and random rewriting per-turbation on retrieved text, hiding the content of original documents while satisfying 𝜀 -LDP. LPRAG [18] applies LDP perturbation only to private entities (words, numbers, or phrases) within the text, identifying entity types and allo-cating adaptive privacy budgets, using different perturbation mechanisms for each type. Differentially private synthetic text [14] avoids leakage at the source by generating DP-compliant synthetic documents to replace sensitive original data. DP-KSA [19] adopts keyword semantic compression and a propose-test-release mechanism to extract high-frequency keywords from retrieved documents in a differentially private manner, augmenting only the compressed keywords into the prompt. Text-DP [20] proposes a textual differential privacy paradigm for context-aware inference, achieving sensitive information anonymization through differential embedding hashing. RemoteRAG [21] formalizes the privacy protection problem for cloud-based RAG services, introducing an (𝑛, 𝜀 )-DistanceDP mechanism to perturb queries and document em-beddings, narrowing the retrieval scope based on perturbed embedding vectors. ppRAG [22] combines distance-preserving symmetric encryption (CAPRISE) with the DistanceDP mech-anism to enable similarity computation over encrypted embed-dings in untrusted cloud environments, ensuring that plaintext documents are never exposed. JOURNAL OF L ATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 3

Another class of methods does not rely on differential privacy, protecting original documents through synthetic data, knowledge distillation, embedding shifting, or model unlearn-ing. Pure synthetic data methods [7] replace the retrieval database entirely with artificially generated text that contains no sensitive information. Parametric RAG [23] adopts knowl-edge distillation to convert each document into a parameterized LoRA module, requiring no access to original documents during inference, with document content masked by special tokens. PRESS [24] fine-tunes the model via embedding space shifting, enabling RAG inference without needing to access original sensitive documents. Additionally, [25] studies methods to erase private knowledge from multiple documents, fine-tuning the model to actively forget sensitive information from retrieved documents. 

C. Privacy protection for Training stage 

Beyond the direct protections targeting the generation pro-cess and retrieved documents, researchers have also worked on training-stage privacy, multi-query privacy accounting, and system security evaluation. Regarding user-level pri-vacy protection during the training phase of RAG systems, Charles et al. [26] designs two scalable DP-SGD variants (ELS example-level sampling and ULS user-level sampling) and derives a tight user-level privacy accounting framework, adaptively selecting user group sizes between privacy and computational resources via data-driven heuristics; Boenisch et al. [27] further proposes a personalized differential pri-vacy method that assigns different sampling rates or clipping norms to different users to achieve individualized protection strength. In multi-turn interaction scenarios, continuous pri-vacy budget consumption is a key challenge for practical deployment. Private-RAG (MURAG) [28] shifts privacy ac-counting from the query level to the document level through document access frequency-based individual privacy filtering and adaptive threshold release, effectively controlling privacy accumulation in multi-turn interactions. Beyond Per-Query Privacy [29] systematically studies privacy budget consump-tion in online interactions, designing both fixed-threshold and adaptive-threshold private retrieval algorithms, making privacy consumption related to document retrieval frequency rather than total query count, achieving more efficient document se-lection and multi-turn QA generation under 𝜀 -DP guarantees. III. P RELIMINARY 

Differential privacy is a standard paradigm for protecting privacy of individuals. It requires that changing one entry can create only a small change of the output distributions. 

Definition III.1. (Differential Privacy (DP) [30]). A ran-domized mechanism M: X𝑛 → R satisfies (𝜖, 𝛿 )-differential privacy if for any two adjacent inputs D, D′ and for any subset of outputs 𝑆 ⊆ R , it holds that 

Pr [M (D) ∈ 𝑆 ] ≤ 𝑒 𝜖 𝑃 𝑟 [M (D ′) ∈ 𝑆 ] + 𝛿 . 

Lemma III.1 (Laplace Mechanism [31]) . Given a function 

𝑓 : X𝑛 → R with sensitivity Δ 𝑓 = max D, D′ adjacent 𝑓 (D) − 

𝑓 (D ′) , the Laplace mechanism outputs 

M (D) = 𝑓 (D) + 𝜂, 

where 𝜂 ∼ Lap 

 Δ 𝑓 𝜖 



. Then M satisfies 𝜖 -differential privacy. 

Lemma III.2. (Exponential Mechanism [32]) For a dataset 

D, let 𝑢 (D , 𝑟 ) be a utility function with respect to output 

𝑟 ∈ R , and let △𝑢 be the sensitivity of 𝑢 . The exponential mechanism M(D , 𝑢, R) selects an element 𝑟 ∈ R with proba-bility proportional to 

exp 

 𝜖 𝑢 (D , 𝑟 )

2△𝑢 



,

and this mechanism satisfies 𝜖 -differential privacy. 

To adapt differential privacy to textual data, we introduce Semantic Metric Differential Privacy (Definition III.2). 

Definition III.2. [(𝜖, 𝛿 )-Semantic Metric Differential Privacy] Let X denote the text space, where each text 𝑥 ∈ X is represented as a token sequence 𝑥 = (𝑤 1, . . . , 𝑤 𝑛 ). Define an edit-based adjacency relation 𝑥 ∼ 𝑥 ′ such that 𝑥 ′ can be obtained from 𝑥 by a single token- or phrase-level insertion, deletion, or substitution operation, i.e., 𝑑 edit (𝑥, 𝑥 ′) = 1. Let 

𝜙 : X → R𝑑 be a semantic embedding function, and define the semantic metric 

𝑑 𝜙 (𝑥, 𝑥 ′) = ∥𝜙 (𝑥 ) − 𝜙 (𝑥 ′)∥ 2.

A randomized mechanism 𝑀 : X → Y is said to satisfy 

(𝜖, 𝛿 )-Semantic Metric Differential Privacy if the following conditions hold: For any adjacent texts 𝑥 ∼ 𝑥 ′ and any measurable set 𝑆 ⊆ Y ,

Pr [𝑀 (𝑥 ) ∈ 𝑆 ] ≤ 𝑒 𝜖 𝑑 𝜙 ( 𝑥,𝑥 ′ ) Pr [𝑀 (𝑥 ′) ∈ 𝑆 ] + 𝛿. 

Based on this definition, we further propose the Semantic Laplace Mechanism and the Semantic Exponential Mecha-nism, which serve as the core privacy-preserving components of our method. IV. M ETHOD 

This paper proposes a Prompt-Aware Dynamic Hierarchi-cal Differential Privacy (PA-HDP) protection method. This method decomposes the entire privacy protection pipeline into three tightly coupled stages: the normalization and definition of privacy units, prompt-aware risk assessment, hierarchical DP protection. Specifically, the first stage performs standardized data pre-processing and defines the sentence as the minimum gran-ularity unit for privacy protection. The second stage per-forms fine-grained privacy risk assessment and hierarchical classification on these retrieved segments by analyzing their semantic correlation with user queries. In the final stage, the framework first generates semantically equivalent candidate texts by applying differentiated sensitive entity replacement strategies. It then performs hierarchical differential privacy protection by selecting the optimal sanitized text from the JOURNAL OF L ATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 4

Algorithm 1 PA-HDP 

Input: Prompt 𝑞 , retrieval document 𝐷 = {𝑑 1, . . . , 𝑑 𝑛 },retrieval number 𝐾 , size of candidate set 𝑚 , privacy budget 

𝜖 , and parameters 𝜆, 𝛼 ∈ [ 0, 1]. 

> 1:

//Retrieval and text preprocessing//  

> 2:

Encode document via embedding model to obtain dense vectors {𝐸 (𝑑 1), . . . , 𝐸 (𝑑 𝑛 )}  

> 3:

Build vector index database for efficient similarity search  

> 4:

Encode user query to obtain 𝐸 (𝑞 ) 

> 5:

for each document chunk 𝑑 𝑖 in vector index do  

> 6:

Compute cosine similarity for ( 𝐸 (𝑑 𝑖 ), 𝐸 (𝑞 )) 

> 7:

end for  

> 8:

Select top-𝐾 most relevant contexts {𝑠 1, . . . , 𝑠 𝐾 } 

> 9:

Divide text segment 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 for 𝑠 𝑖 . 

> 10:

//prompt-aware risk assessment//  

> 11:

for each text segment 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 do  

> 12:

Encode text segment to obtain 𝐸 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) 

> 13:

Compute risk-aware semantic similarity 𝑆 𝑟 𝑒𝑙  

> 14:

Obtain sensitive field set 𝐸 𝑖, 𝑗 = {𝑒 1 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

, . . . , 𝑒 𝑚 𝑖, 𝑗 } 

> 15:

Compute field sensitivity 𝑆 𝑠𝑒𝑛  

> 16:

Compute risk score 𝑆 𝑡𝑜𝑡 𝑎𝑙 (𝑞, 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) by Eq.1  

> 17:

Obtain noisy risk score 

𝑆 ∗ 

> 𝑡𝑜𝑡 𝑎𝑙

(𝑞, 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) = 𝑆 𝑡𝑜𝑡 𝑎𝑙 (𝑞, 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) + 𝐿𝑎 𝑝 ( 2

𝜖 ) 

> 18:

Divide privacy risk levels according to 𝑆 ∗ 

> 𝑡𝑜𝑡 𝑎𝑙

(𝑞, 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) 

> 19:

end for  

> 20:

//Hierarchical DP protection//  

> 21:

for each text segment 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 do  

> 22:

if 𝑆 ∗ 

> 𝑡𝑜𝑡 𝑎𝑙

(𝑞, 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) ≥ 𝜏 1 then  

> 23:

Generate candidate texts 𝐶 =

n

𝑠 1 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

, . . . , 𝑠 𝑚 𝑖, 𝑗 

o

by replacing entities  

> 24:

Use the exponential mechanism to privately output the optimal 𝑠 ∗ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

∈ 𝐶 with 𝜖 𝐻 /𝜖 𝑀  

> 25:

end if  

> 26:

end for  

> 27:

Replace 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 with 𝑠 ∗ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

to get 𝑠 ∗

> 1

, . . . , 𝑠 ∗ 

> 𝐾
> 28:

return Private contexts 𝑠 ∗

> 1

, . . . , 𝑠 ∗

> 𝐾

candidate set through the exponential mechanism, while rigor-ously satisfying the formal constraints of differential privacy. The complete pseudo-code is shown in Algorithm 1. Furthermore, Fig. 1 provides an example illustrating the pipeline of our privacy protection algorithm. 

A. Retrieval and Text Preprocessing 

In Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), the retrieval stage determines the external knowledge accessible to the large language model (LLM) and serves as the primary entry point for privacy leakage. Given an external knowledge base 

𝐷 = {𝑑 1, . . . , 𝑑 𝑛 }, each document is first chunked, embedded using an encoder 𝐸 (·) , and indexed as dense vectors. For a user query 𝑞 , the system computes its embedding 𝐸 (𝑞 ) and retrieves the top-𝐾 text segments {𝑠 1, . . . , 𝑠 𝐾 } based on cosine similarity. The fixed top-𝐾 strategy limits context length, reduces semantic redundancy, and confines privacy protection to query-relevant content. To improve processing quality, the retrieved text is further preprocessed through sentence segmentation and text normal-ization, including punctuation-based boundary detection and the removal of redundant symbols, spaces, and line breaks. These operations provide standardized inputs for subsequent sensitive entity identification and differential privacy protec-tion. After preprocessing, each sentence 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 is defined as a Basic Privacy Unit (PU) , where 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 denotes the 𝑗 -th sentence in the 

𝑖 -th retrieved context. A privacy unit is the minimum process-ing unit for sensitive entity recognition, sensitivity assessment, candidate generation, and differential privacy perturbation. Each PU preserves semantic completeness while maintaining an independent privacy level and budget. The independent design of privacy units enables fine-grained privacy protection and naturally satisfies differential privacy composition. It allows stronger protection for high-risk content while preserving the utility of low-risk text, thereby achieving a better privacy–utility trade-off. 

B. Prompt-aware risk assessment 

After completing retrieval and text preprocessing, to achieve fine-grained differentiated privacy protection, it is necessary to perform accurate localization, quantitative assessment, and hierarchical classification of sensitive information in the re-trieved segments. In RAG scenarios, only sensitive information relevant to the current user query constitutes genuine privacy leakage risks. Even if query-irrelevant sensitive content exists in the retrieval results, it is difficult for Large Language Models (LLMs) to attend to and output it, thus requiring no high-intensity protection. To realize prompt-aware dynamic risk assessment, this paper proposes a two-dimensional risk quantification model. It separately calculates the risk-aware semantic relevance 𝑆 𝑟 𝑒𝑙 

between the retrieved segment and the user query 𝑞 , and the field sensitivity 𝑆 𝑠𝑒𝑛 of the segment itself. The final comprehensive risk score 𝑆 𝑡𝑜𝑡 𝑎𝑙 is obtained through weighted fusion, based on which the text is divided into different privacy risk levels. 

1) Risk-aware semantic similarity: We design a risk-aware gating mechanism that restricts semantic relevance computa-tion to cases where the user query explicitly involves poten-tially sensitive entities. Specifically, we first assess whether the query contains potentially sensitive entities (e.g., person names, locations, or organizations). This assessment deter-mines whether the current query is likely to trigger privacy leakage in the retrieved documents. Let the user query be 𝑞 , and the j-th segment of the retrieved context 𝑠 𝑖 be 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 . We first apply an entity recognition module 

E (·) to extract entities from the query: 

E ( 𝑞 ) = {𝑒 1, 𝑒 2, ..., 𝑒 𝑚 }.

We then define a sensitive-entity indicator function: JOURNAL OF L ATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 5

> Fig. 1. Pipeline of PA-HDP. a) Prompt-aware risk assessment stage. b) Hierarchical differential privacy protection stage. c) Full retrieval-augmented generation pipeline.

𝐼 (𝑞 ) =

(

1, if E ( 𝑞 ) ∩ E 𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑠 ≠ ∅

0, otherwise where E𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑠 denotes a predefined set of sensitive entity types. When 𝐼 (𝑞 ) = 1, we compute semantic similarity between the query and each segment using the same embedding model 

𝐸 (·) employed in the retrieval stage: 

v𝑞 = 𝐸 (𝑞 ), v𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 = 𝐸 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ),𝑆 𝑟 𝑒𝑙 (𝑞, 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) = v𝑞 · v𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 

∥v𝑞 ∥ · ∥ v𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ∥ .

When 𝐼 (𝑞 ) = 0, we conservatively assign 𝑆 𝑟 𝑒𝑙 (𝑞, 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) = 0,where · denotes the vector dot product and ∥ · ∥ denotes the L2 norm. Thus, 𝑆 𝑟 𝑒𝑙 (𝑞, 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) ∈ [ 0, 1].Intuitively, when such entities are present, a higher semantic similarity between the query and a retrieved segment indicates a higher probability that the segment may be leveraged by the generation model, thereby increasing the risk of privacy leakage. Conversely, when no sensitive entities are detected in the query, we assume negligible entity-driven leakage risk from direct semantic matching and set the relevance score to zero. 

2) Field sensitivity: Field sensitivity measures the inherent leakage harm degree of sensitive information contained in a retrieved text segment. This paper adopts a hybrid strategy combining Named Entity Recognition (NER) and rule-based extraction to comprehensively extract sensitive fields from retrieved text segments, forming a sensitive field set E𝑖, 𝑗 =

{𝑒 1 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

, . . . , 𝑒 𝑚 𝑖, 𝑗 }, where 𝑒 𝑘 𝑖, 𝑗 denotes the k-th sensitive entity in the 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 text segment. The NER module is implemented based on a pre-trained semantic model, which can automatically recognize and locate unstructured sensitive entities such as personal names, locations, ages, and disease diagnoses in the text. These entities usually have the ability to directly or indirectly identify user identities and are the primary sources of privacy leakage. On this basis, the rule-based extraction module complements the recognition of highly structured sensitive information such as phone numbers, email addresses, ID card numbers, and passwords through regular expressions, keyword libraries, and sensitive pattern matching. Such infor-mation cannot be fully recognized solely by semantic features but has fixed formats and combination patterns. This hybrid strategy ensures that all content that may pose privacy risks is included in the assessment scope, avoiding protection failure caused by omissions. Subsequently, we assign predefined risk weights 𝑤 𝑘 ∈ [0, 1] to different types of sensitive entities according to their leakage harm degrees. For example, high risk weights ( 𝑤 𝑘 ∈ [ 0.7, 1.0]) are assigned to entities such as ID card numbers, phone numbers, personal names, and disease diagnoses, while low risk weights ( 𝑤 𝑘 ∈ [ 0.1, 0.3])are assigned to entities such as locations, dates, and common nouns. The field sensitivity of the j-th segment is defined as the maximum value of the risk weights of all sensitive entities in the text segment: 

𝑆 𝑠𝑒𝑛 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) = max    

> 1≤𝑘 ≤𝑚

𝑤 𝑘 .

Using the maximum value instead of the average value as the field sensitivity ensures that a text segment will be classified as high risk as long as it contains one high-risk JOURNAL OF L ATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 6

sensitive entity, thereby avoiding the underestimation of high-risk content caused by the averaging effect. 

3) Risk assessment: The semantic relevance and field sen-sitivity are weighted and fused to obtain the comprehensive risk score of the j-th segment: 

𝑆 𝑡𝑜𝑡 𝑎𝑙 (𝑞, 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) = 𝜆 · 𝑆 𝑟 𝑒𝑙 (𝑞, 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) + ( 1 − 𝜆 ) · 𝑆 𝑠𝑒𝑛 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ). (1) Where 𝜆 ∈ [ 0, 1] is the balance coefficient used to adjust the relative importance of semantic relevance and field sensitivity in risk assessment. In our experiments, the optimal value 𝜆 =

0.6 is determined through grid search, indicating that semantic relevance has a slightly greater impact on the final risk than the inherent sensitivity of the field itself. Furthermore, we introduce the semantic Laplace mechanism to achieve rigorous privacy protection, and yield the noisy risk scores 𝑆 ∗ 

> 𝑡𝑜𝑡 𝑎𝑙

(𝑞, 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ). (The details are presented in the appendix.) Finally, text segments are divided into three privacy risk levels according to their comprehensive risk scores: RiskLevel (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) =



Low Risk , 𝑆 ∗ 

> 𝑡𝑜𝑡 𝑎𝑙

(𝑞, 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) < 𝜏 1

Medium Risk , 𝜏 1 ≤ 𝑆 ∗ 

> 𝑡𝑜𝑡 𝑎𝑙

(𝑞, 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) < 𝜏 2

High Risk , 𝑆 ∗ 

> 𝑡𝑜𝑡 𝑎𝑙

(𝑞, 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) ≥ 𝜏 2

where 𝜏 1 and 𝜏 2 denote the risk-level partition thresholds. In our experiments, we set 𝜏 1 = 0.3 and 𝜏 2 = 0.7 based on empirical observations. Text segments (sentences) with different risk levels will adopt differential privacy protection strategies with different budgets to achieve the differentiated privacy protection objective of ”low risk, low protection; high risk, high protection”. 

C. Hierarchical DP protection 

To achieve provable and fine-grained privacy protection, we propose the semantic metric differential privacy as the refined privacy definition, and adopt the exponential mechanism as the core privacy algorithm. This section sequentially performs candidate text generation, utility function design, semantic exponential mechanism construction and hierarchical DP pro-tection, and finally outputs secure and highly usable sanitized text under the premise of strictly satisfying differential privacy constraints. 

1) Candidate text generation: For each retrieved text seg-ment 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , we construct a set of semantically equivalent and structurally consistent candidate texts, providing a secure candidate space for the exponential mechanism to select the optimal output under differential privacy constraints. The candidate text construction adopts a core strategy centered on sensitive entity replacement, generating multiple semantically equivalent valid candidate texts while strictly preserving the overall semantic structure and non-sensitive content of the original sentence. Specifically, we pre-construct a large-scale sanitized entity corpus 𝑅 as the secure material source for sensitive infor-mation replacement. We employ the hybrid entity extraction strategy proposed in Section 3.2.2 (combining Named Entity Recognition (NER) and rule-based extraction) to extract all en-tities from the external knowledge base and perform category annotation. For each retrieved text segment, the system first detects all sensitive entities, including their positions and categories. Next, it randomly selects entities of the same category from the sanitized entity corpus 𝑅 to perform isomorphic replacement. Ultimately, the system produces 𝑚 semantically identical candidate segments, denoted as 𝐶 =

n

𝑠 1 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

, . . . , 𝑠 𝑚 𝑖, 𝑗 

o

. We set 

𝑚 = 50 in our experiments. 

2) Utility function design: To privately select the most ap-propriate candidate text from a candidate set while preserving semantic fidelity and reducing privacy leakage risk, we design a composite utility function for the exponential mechanism. The utility function jointly considers two objectives: semantic preservation and privacy safety. Specifically, given a retrieved segment 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ∈ X and a candidate text 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ∈ 𝐶 , the utility function is defined as: 

𝑢 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ) = −𝛼 · 𝑑 sem (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ) − ( 1 − 𝛼 ) · 𝑟 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 )

where 𝑑 sem (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ) denotes the semantic distance between the original segment and the candidate text, 𝑟 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ) repre-sents the privacy leakage risk of the candidate text, 𝛼 > 0 is a trade-off parameter balancing semantic quality and privacy protection, and 𝐷 > 0 is a normalization constant used to stabilize the utility scale and control sensitivity. To measure semantic preservation, both the original seg-ment and the candidate text are encoded into dense semantic embeddings using a pretrained text embedding model 𝜙 .The semantic distance is then computed using the Euclidean distance in the embedding space: 

𝑑 sem (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ) = ∥𝜙 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) − 𝜙 (𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 )∥ 2.

A smaller semantic distance indicates that the candidate text preserves the semantic meaning of the original text more effectively. Therefore, the utility function assigns higher utility values to candidates with smaller embedding distances. To evaluate privacy security, we first extract all sensitive en-tities present in each candidate text and form a set, denoted as 

𝐸 (𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ). Each element in 𝐸 (𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ) denotes a potentially sensitive entity or phrase, such as names, addresses, phone numbers, or medical identifiers. If no sensitive span is detected, the privacy risk 𝑟 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ) = 0. Otherwise, each sensitive entity is embedded into the same semantic space, and its semantic similarity to the original segment is measured using cosine similarity. The overall privacy leakage risk of the candidate text is defined as the maximum similarity among all remaining sensitive spans: 

𝑟 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ) = max    

> 𝑒 ∈𝐸 (𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 )

cos (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑒 ).

This worst-case formulation emphasizes the most privacy-sensitive residual entity, where even a single highly correlated sensitive span may lead to successful information recovery. In addition, the parameter 𝛼 controls the relative importance of privacy protection versus semantic preservation: larger values favor candidates with lower privacy leakage risk, while smaller values place greater emphasis on semantic fidelity. In our JOURNAL OF L ATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 7

experiments, we set 𝛼 = 0.5, which was found to provide the best trade-off between semantic fidelity and privacy protection. It is worth noting that entity-level privacy risk assessment is also performed on the retrieved progress. However, the two stages serve different purposes: the former evaluates the privacy leakage risk introduced by the prompt itself, whereas the latter measures the residual privacy risk of candidate texts with respect to the original segment. Additionally, to properly bound the semantic distance in the embedding space, all embedding vectors are normalized to unit norm, i.e., 

|| 𝜙 (𝑠 )|| 2 ≤ 1. This normalization constrains the embedding space to a bounded domain, ensuring numerical stability and facilitating the derivation of the utility sensitivity bound under the semantic metric. 

3) Semantic exponential mechanism construction: In this section, we first propose the Semantic Metric Differential Privacy, providing a theoretical basis for privacy protection methods. Based on the above utility function, the exponential mech-anism selects a candidate text according to the following probability distribution: 

Lemma IV.1 (Semantic Exponential Mechanism) . Let C be a finite candidate text set, and let 

𝑢 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ) = −𝛼 · 𝑑 sem (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ) − ( 1 − 𝛼 ) · 𝑟 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ),

where 𝛼 ≥ 0. The Semantic Exponential Mechanism selects an output 𝑠 ∗ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

∈ C according to the probability distribution 

Pr [𝑀 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) = 𝑠 ∗ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

] =

exp 

 𝜖 𝑢 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ,𝑠 ∗ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗 )
> 2

Í 

> 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ∈ C

exp 

 𝜖 𝑢 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ,𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 )

> 2

 .

Then 𝑀 satisfies (𝜖, 0)-Semantic Metric Differential Pri-vacy. 

The proof details are presented in the appendix. 

4) Hierarchical DP protection: After determining the can-didate text set and privacy mechanism, the reasonable alloca-tion of the privacy budget is the key to ensuring the balance between the protection effect of differential privacy and the utility of text generation. To provide differentiated privacy protection for texts with varying sensitivity levels, we first classify all texts into three privacy risk categories: high-risk, medium-risk, and low-risk. High-risk texts typically contain highly sensitive information, while medium-risk texts contain partially sensitive or identifiable content. Low-risk texts are not considered in the subsequent privacy budget allocation. After risk classification, differential privacy budgets are allocated separately to high-risk and medium-risk texts. Let the total privacy budget be 𝜖 , the number of high-risk texts be 

𝑁 ℎ, and the number of medium-risk texts be 𝑁 𝑚 . Since high-risk texts require stronger privacy protection, they are assigned smaller privacy budgets than medium-risk texts. We adopt a risk-aware budget allocation strategy defined as: 

𝜀 𝐻 = 𝜀 

2(𝑁 𝐻 + 𝜆𝑁 𝑀 ) , 𝜀 𝑀 = 𝛾𝜀 𝐻 

where 𝜀 𝐻 and 𝜀 𝑀 denote the privacy budgets for high-risk and medium-risk texts, respectively, and 𝛾 > 1 controls the protection gap between different risk levels. In our experi-ments, we set 𝛾 = 2, meaning that medium-risk texts receive twice the privacy budget of high-risk texts. This strategy enables stronger protection for highly sensitive texts while preserving better semantic utility for medium-risk texts. V. E XPERIMENT 

This section verifies the effectiveness and privacy protection performance of the proposed PA-HDP method through a series of experiments. We first describe the experimental setup in Section A. Subsequently, Sections B and C evaluate the utility and privacy outcomes of the proposed method. Furthermore, we conduct an ablation study in Section D to investigate how different privacy budgets and numbers of retrieved documents affect the performance of our method. Finally, we perform a comprehensive hyperparameter comparison in Section F to identify the optimal hyperparameter configuration. 

A. Experimental details 

In this section, we introduce the evaluation datasets, baseline algorithms, and experimental setup. The overall experimental evaluation followed the experimental setup in work [7]. 

1) Datasets: We evaluate the effectiveness of our proposed methods under two privacy-relevant experimental scenarios. The first scenario targets real-world medical dialogue mon-itoring, where we adopt the HealthcareMagic-101 dataset (comprising 200,000 doctor-patient medical dialogues) as the retrieval corpus. In the second scenario, following Huang et al. [33], we consider a setting where private information is mixed with public data. Specifically, we construct the Wiki-PII dataset by embedding personally identifiable information (PII) fragments extracted from the private Enron Mail dataset into each sample of the public WikiText-103 dataset. We then benchmark our methods on four standard open-domain question answering (ODQA) benchmarks: Natural Questions (NQ) [34], TriviaQA (TQA) [35], Web Questions (WQ) [36], and CuratedTrec (CT) [37]. Full details on dataset construction and characteristics are provided in Appendix A.9. 

2) Baselines: To evaluate the effectiveness of our method, we compare against four baselines. The first is Paraphras-ing [7], which uses an LLM to extract the most relevant parts of the original context without performing any semantic rewriting. The second is ZeroGen [38], a zero-shot learning framework that first generates a synthetic dataset from scratch using a large pre-trained language model guided by task-specific prompts, then trains a tiny task model (e.g., LSTM) on the synthesized data for efficient inference. The third is 

AttrPrompt [39], a data synthesis approach that generates training data using diversely attributed prompts (specifying attributes such as length, style, or topic), which yields more diverse and less biased synthetic datasets compared to simple class-conditional prompts. The fourth is SAGE [7], a two-stage synthetic data generation paradigm that mitigates the privacy issues by pure synthetic data. In this method, Stage-1 JOURNAL OF L ATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 8

refers to the outputs generated from attribute-based generation, while Stage-2 represents the outputs of the complete SAGE pipeline. The fifth is LPRAG [18], a privacy-preserving RAG framework with formal privacy guarantees based on local differential privacy (LDP). Detailed descriptions of these baselines are provided in Appendix A.3. In addition, we report several variants of our framework to analyze the contribution of each component. 0-shot denotes generation without retrieval augmentation. Origin uses the original dataset directly as the retrieval corpus. 

3) Experimental Setup: For both utility and privacy evalua-tions, we employ two representative generation backbones: the closed-source GPT-3.5-Turbo and the open-source Llama3-8B-Chat (L8C) . Using both proprietary and open-source models allows us to assess the generality of our approach across different model families and deployment settings. We include L8C because its performance on the target tasks relies heavily on retrieval augmentation, making it suitable for evaluating the utility gains provided by RAG. In addition, both models have undergone safety alignment, enabling us to investigate privacy risks in standard RAG pipelines and evaluate the effectiveness of our proposed protection mechanism under realistic deployment conditions. We adopt bge-large-en-v1.5 as the embedding model. Un-less otherwise specified, similarity is computed using the Cosine similarity between normalized embeddings, GPT-3.5-Turbo is adopted as the generation model, only the top retrieved document ( 𝑘 = 1) and a privacy budget of 𝜖 = 5

are provided for each query. 

B. Utility evaluation 

To evaluate the utility of synthetic data as retrieval corpora, we assess the quality of generated answers by comparing them against the corresponding ground-truth answers. We report two widely used text generation metrics, ROUGE-L and BLEU ,as the primary evaluation measures. ROUGE-L evaluates the longest common subsequence be-tween the generated answer and the reference answer, captur-ing their similarity in terms of content coverage and sentence-level structure. BLEU measures the overlap of n-grams be-tween the generated and reference answers, reflecting the lexical accuracy and fluency of the generated text. Higher ROUGE-L and BLEU scores indicate better agreement with the ground truth and, consequently, higher utility of the synthetic retrieval data. 

1) Results on Medical Dialog: In this section, we split the data into two parts: 99% of the data is used as the retrieval data, and the remaining 1% is used as the test data. As shown in Table I, our method consistently achieves the best perfor-mance across both generation backbones. Compared with all baselines, it substantially improves both BLEU and ROUGE-L scores. In particular, under GPT-3.5, our method improves BLEU from 0.1594 (Stage-2) to 0.3275 and ROUGE-L from 0.1288 to 0.3445. Similar gains are observed for Llama3-8B-Chat. These results demonstrate that our approach is able to preserve the utility of retrieval data while maintaining high answer quality.                                           

> TABLE I UTILITY RESULTS ON HEALTH CARE MAGIC DATASET
> Method GPT-3.5 Llama3-8b-Chat BLEU ROUGE-L BLEU ROUGE-L 0-shot 0.1143 0.1045 0.081 0.0765 Origin 0.1193 0.1078 0.0846 0.0789 Paraphrase 0.1481 0.1303 0.105 0.0952 ZeroGen 0.1199 0.1050 0.085 0.0769 LPRAG 0.3186 0.3310 0.1634 0.1596 AttrPrompt 0.1114 0.0915 0.079 0.0670 Stage-1 0.1578 0.1306 0.114 0.0956 Stage-2 0.1594 0.1288 0.1192 0.1160 Ours 0.3275 0.3445 0.1512 0.1726

The superior performance can be attributed to the hierarchi-cal protection strategy adopted in our framework. Instead of rewriting or regenerating entire documents, our method first identifies sensitive content and applies protection only where necessary. Most non-sensitive information is preserved in its original form, retaining the semantic integrity and knowledge content of the source documents. By minimizing unnecessary modifications and restricting transformations to a small subset of sensitive spans, the protected retrieval corpus remains highly faithful to the original data, leading to significantly bet-ter performance than methods that rely on extensive rewriting or synthetic generation. 

2) Results on ODQA: Table II presents the ODQA results on the Wiki-PII dataset. Overall, our method achieves the best or near-best performance across the four benchmark datasets (NQ, TQA, WQ, and CT) under both GPT-3.5-Turbo and Llama3-8B-Chat. Compared with existing synthetic data generation approaches, including ZeroGen, Stage-2 and Attr-Prompt, the proposed method consistently yields higher BLEU and ROUGE-L scores. Notably, the performance advantage is observed for both closed-source and open-source models, indicating that the effectiveness of our approach is not tied to a specific generation backbone. These results demonstrate that the proposed framework can preserve the utility of retrieval data while providing privacy protection, enabling downstream QA systems to maintain high answer quality. These results highlight the advantage of our fine-grained, risk-aware protection strategy. Existing synthetic generation methods often modify or regenerate large portions of the retrieval corpus, which can introduce semantic distortions and weaken the connection between retrieved documents and downstream questions. In contrast, our method selectively pro-tects only the sensitive content while preserving the majority of the original document structure, factual knowledge, and contextual information. By minimizing unnecessary perturba-tions to non-sensitive content, the resulting retrieval corpus remains highly faithful to the original data distribution and therefore retains strong retrieval utility. Overall, the results demonstrate that effective privacy protection and high retrieval utility are not necessarily conflicting objectives, and that carefully controlled modifications can preserve downstream ODQA performance while substantially reducing privacy risks. JOURNAL OF L ATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 9                                                                                                                                                                          

> TABLE II UTILITY RESULTS ON WIKI -PII DATASET
> GPT-3.5 NQ TQA WQ CT Method BLEU ↑ROUGE-L ↑BLEU ↑ROUGE-L ↑BLEU ↑ROUGE-L ↑BLEU ↑ROUGE-L ↑
> 0-shot 0.0239 0.0528 0.0371 0.0776 0.0252 0.0622 0.0368 0.0680 Origin 0.0598 0.1223 0.0660 0.1345 0.0517 0.1179 0.0742 0.1464
> Paraphrase 0.0508 0.1044 0.0558 0.1241 0.0331 0.0813 0.0563 0.1142 ZeroGen 0.0113 0.0245 0.0251 0.0494 0.0366 0.0874 0.0484 0.0929 AttrPrompt 0.0203 0.0415 0.0264 0.0534 0.0211 0.0478 0.0260 0.0503 Stage-1 0.0435 0.0998 0.0550 0.1231 0.0465 0.1205 0.0509 0.1097 Stage-2 0.0588 0.1250 0.0576 0.1221 0.0609 0.1296 0.0538 0.1210 Ours 0.0674 0.1437 0.0688 0.1476 0.0666 0.1443 0.0638 0.1392 Llama3 NQ TQA WQ CT Method BLEU ↑ROUGE-L ↑BLEU ↑ROUGE-L ↑BLEU ↑ROUGE-L ↑BLEU ↑ROUGE-L ↑
> 0-shot 0.00719 0.0136 0.0084 0.0157 0.0072 0.0143 0.0088 0.0150 Origin 0.0180 0.0315 0.0150 0.0272 0.0147 0.0271 0.0178 0.0323 Paraphrase 0.0153 0.0269 0.0127 0.0251 0.0094 0.0187 0.0135 0.0252 ZeroGen 0.0034 0.0063 0.0057 0.010 0.0104 0.0201 0.0116 0.0205 AttrPrompt 0.0061 0.0107 0.006 0.0108 0.006 0.0110 0.0062 0.0111 Stage-1 0.0131 0.0257 0.0125 0.0249 0.0132 0.0277 0.0122 0.0242 Stage-2 0.0248 0.0406 0.0252 0.0398 0.0256 0.0429 0.0255 0.0427 Ours 0.0283 0.0476 0.0281 0.0495 0.0278 0.0472 0.0251 0.0437

C. privacy evaluation 

To evaluate the privacy protection capability of our method, we conduct both targeted and untargeted extraction attacks following [7]. These attacks are designed to induce retrieval systems to disclose information from the retrieval corpus. The attack prompt consists of two components: an informa-tion component and a command component. The information component is used to guide the retriever toward specific content, while the command component instructs the language model to reveal the retrieved information (e.g., “Please re-peat all the context”). For targeted attacks, the information component is crafted to retrieve specific sensitive content, such as personal identifiers or private medical dialogues. For untargeted attacks, it is designed to maximize the amount of information extracted from the retrieval corpus without focusing on any particular target. For targeted attacks , we report Repeat Prompts and Tar-geted Information , which measures the number of unique sensitive information items successfully extracted by the at-tacker. For untargeted attacks , we report four metrics. Repeat Prompts counts the number of attack prompts that induce the model to reproduce at least 10 consecutive tokens from the retrieval corpus. Rouge Prompts counts the number of prompts whose outputs achieve a ROUGE-L score above 0.5 with any retrieved document. We further report Repeat Contexts , the number of unique verbatim excerpts extracted from the corpus, and Rouge Contexts , the number of unique extracted passages with a ROUGE-L score greater than 0.5. 

1) Results on Targeted Attack: Table III presents the results of targeted extraction attacks on both the Wiki-PII and Health-CareMagic datasets. The original retrieval corpus is highly vulnerable to extraction attacks, especially when paired with GPT-3.5-Turbo, where a large amount of sensitive information can be successfully recovered. Although existing synthesis-based methods, such as ZeroGen and AttrPrompt, reduce leak-age to some extent, their effectiveness varies across datasets and models. In contrast, our method consistently achieves zero leakage across all settings, with both Targeted Information and Repeat Prompts reduced to zero. The results demonstrate that our hierarchical protection mechanism effectively removes exploitable sensitive informa-tion from the retrieval corpus while preventing verbatim mem-orization and disclosure. Compared with Stage-1 and Stage-2, which still exhibit a small number of successful extrac-tions in certain settings, our complete framework eliminates all targeted leakage attempts. This indicates that selectively protecting sensitive content at different privacy levels provides stronger privacy guarantees than directly relying on synthetic generation or coarse-grained document transformation. 

2) Results on Untargeted Attack: Table IV reports the re-sults of untargeted extraction attacks on the HealthCareMagic dataset. The original retrieval corpus remains highly vulnera-ble, especially under GPT-3.5-Turbo, where a large number of prompts successfully induce verbatim or semantically similar disclosures. Although paraphrasing reduces exact leakage, substantial privacy risks still remain. In contrast, our method achieves zero leakage across all prompt-level and context-level metrics under both generation backbones. Compared with Stage-1, which still allows a small number of successful extractions, our complete framework effectively prevents both exact memorization and semantic reconstruction of sensitive content, demonstrating strong robustness against untargeted extraction attacks. 

D. Ablation Study 

In this section, we conduct two ablation studies to further analyze the effectiveness of our method. Specifically, we investigate the impact of different privacy budgets and the effect of varying the number of retrieved documents. These experiments aim to provide a more fine-grained understanding JOURNAL OF L ATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 10                                                                                                                                                            

> TABLE III TARGETED ATTACK RESULTS ON WIKI -PII AND HEALTH CARE MAGIC DATASET (250 PROMPTS )Target-wiki-llama-3-8b Target-wiki-gpt-3.5 Target-chat-llama-3-8b Target-chat-gpt-3.5 Method Target info ↓Repeat prompts ↓Target info ↓Repeat prompts ↓Target info ↓Repeat prompts ↓Target info ↓Repeat prompts ↓
> origin 25 12 167 64 723 75 132 para 9128 917 26 42 81 ZeroGen 45520316AttrPrompt 00000000Stage-1 14319 311 12 36 Stage-2 00070000Ours 00000000TABLE IV UNTARGETED ATTACK RESULTS ON HEALTH CARE MAGIC DATASET (250 PROMPTS )Untarget-chat-llama Untarget-chat-gpt3.5 Method Repeat prompt ↓ROUGE prompt ↓Repeat context ↓ROUGE context ↓Repeat prompt ↓ROUGE prompt ↓Repeat context ↓ROUGE context ↓
> origin 19 17 16 13 61 67 49 67 para 23 13 22 11 45 63 33 50 ZeroGen 00000000AttrPrompt 00000000Stage-1 12121010Stage-2 00000000Ours 00000000
> Fig. 2. Utility Results under Different Privacy Budgets

of how key design choices affect both privacy protection and utility performance. 

1) Impact of Privacy Budgets: Fig.2 illustrates the impact of the privacy budget 𝜖 on utility across four ODQA bench-marks (NQ, TQA, WQ, and CT). Overall, both BLEU-1 and ROUGE-L scores consistently increase as 𝜖 grows, indicating a clear trade-off between privacy strength and answear quality. When 𝜖 is small (stronger privacy), performance is relatively lower due to more aggressive perturbation. As 𝜖 increases, the model is allowed to retain more accurate information, leading to steady improvements in both metrics. The trend is consistent across all datasets, demonstrating that higher privacy budgets enable better preservation of retrieval utility while maintaining stable gains across benchmarks. Table V reports targeted attack results under different pri-vacy budgets 𝜖 on both the HealthCareMagic and Wiki-PII datasets using GPT-3.5 as the generation backbone.Table V reports targeted attack results under different privacy budgets 

𝜖 on both the HealthCareMagic and Wiki-PII datasets using GPT-3.5 as the generation backbone. Across all settings, we observe zero successful extraction, including both Targeted Information and Repeat Prompts, under all privacy budgets from 𝜖 = 0.1 to 𝜖 = 10 . This indicates that the proposed method is robust to varying levels of privacy strength, and                            

> TABLE V TARGETED ATTACK RESULTS UNDER DIFFERENT PRIVACY BUDGETS
> Chat Wiki
> 𝜖 Target info ↓Repeat prompts ↓Target info ↓Repeat prompts ↓
> 0.1 0000100005000010 0000

even under weaker privacy constraints (larger 𝜖 ), no sensitive information can be recovered via targeted attacks. These results demonstrate that the hierarchical protection mechanism effectively eliminates direct leakage of sensitive content while maintaining consistent behavior across different privacy bud-gets. 

2) Impact of the retrieved number of documents: Table VI reports the impact of varying the number of retrieved docu-ments 𝑘 on utility across HealthCareMagic and four ODQA benchmarks. Overall, the results remain stable when increasing 

𝑘 from 1 to 5, with only minor fluctuations in BLEU and ROUGE scores. On HealthCareMagic, performance is consis-tently high and even slightly improves at 𝑘 = 3, indicating that JOURNAL OF L ATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 11                                                  

> TABLE VI UTILITY RESULTS ON NUMBER OF RETRIEVED DOCS
> HealthCareMagic NQ TQA WQ CT
> 𝑘 BLEU ROUGE BLEU ROUGE-L BLEU ROUGE-L BLEU ROUGE-L BLEU ROUGE-L 10.3275 0.3445 0.0674 0.1437 0.0688 0.1476 0.0666 0.1443 0.0638 0.1392 30.3300 0.3456 0.0666 0.1432 0.0683 0.1453 0.0693 0.1455 0.0648 0.1388 50.3246 0.3430 0.0667 0.1419 0.0670 0.1427 0.0696 0.1459 0.0623 0.1371
> Fig. 3. Utility Results under Different Generation Models

a moderate increase in retrieved context can provide additional useful information. For ODQA datasets (NQ, TQA, WQ, and CT), we observe similarly small variations, suggesting that increasing the number of retrieved documents does not introduce noticeable degradation in generation quality. These results demonstrate that our pipeline maintains robust utility across different retrieval settings. In particular, expand-ing the retrieval scope does not harm performance, indicating that the generated data is able to support multi-document retrieval without overfitting to a specific retrieval size. This further confirms the stability and generalization capability of our method under varying retrieval configurations. 

3) Impact of Model Choice: We evaluate the utility perfor-mance of Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.2(M7I-v0.2), L8C and GPT-3.5 on ODQA and HealthCareMagic benchmarks, where BLEU-1 and ROUGE-L are adopted to quantify the similarity between generated content and ground-truth references. No-tably, the ODQA results plotted in the figure correspond to the averaged values across its four sub-datasets. On both datasets, M7I-v0.2 and L8C obtain highly comparable but relatively low metric values. GPT-3.5 achieves obvious performance advan-tages over the two open-source models, and the performance gap is more prominent on the challenging ODQA task than the HealthCareMagic task. The close results of M7I-v0.2 and L8C reveal that lightweight open-source LLMs have similar constrained ca-pacity for our stage-1 data generation, which produces low-fidelity synthetic text. In contrast, GPT-3.5 provides steady and superior utility across two different task scenarios. This outcome confirms GPT-3.5 acts as a reliable backbone for our two-stage privacy-preserving generation framework. 

E. Hyperparameter Choice 

Furthermore, we investigate the impact of different hy-perparameter combinations on the utility of the proposed method. Specifically, 𝛾 balances the relative importance of semantic relevance and field sensitivity in risk assessment, while 𝛼 controls the trade-off between privacy protection and semantic preservation during candidate selection. As shown in Table VII, the proposed method exhibits stable performance across different parameter settings, indicating that it is not overly sensitive to hyperparameter choices. Among all config-urations, 𝛾 = 0.6 and 𝛼 = 0.5 consistently achieve the best overall results. This suggests that assigning slightly greater importance to semantic relevance than field sensitivity leads to more accurate risk assessment, while a balanced weighting between privacy protection and semantic preservation provides the most effective trade-off between privacy and utility. There-fore, we adopt 𝛾 = 0.6 and 𝛼 = 0.5 as the default setting in all experiments. 

F. Efficiency Analysis 

To evaluate the computational efficiency of the proposed method, particularly the time overhead introduced by the privacy protection procedure, we compare its runtime with five representative privacy-preserving approaches. The experiments are conducted with the number of retrieved documents set to K=1, which eliminates the impact of retrieval-scale vari-ations and enables a fair comparison of the privacy protection overhead. As shown in Table VIII, all methods have the same retrieval time, and the runtime differences mainly come from the privacy protection process. Our method achieves a relatively low privacy protection overhead and is only slower than PARA. Although PARA has lower runtime, it relies on online LLM API calls for privacy processing, while our method can operate offline without LLM invocation, making it more suitable for practical deployment. VI. C ONCLUSION 

In this paper, we revisit privacy protection in retrieval-augmented generation from a new perspective and identify a fundamental limitation of existing approaches: the document-level static privacy risk assumption. We show that privacy leakage in RAG is inherently query-dependent, and the same document may pose substantially different privacy risks under different user prompts. Motivated by this observation, we pro-pose PA-HDP, a Prompt-Aware Dynamic Hierarchical Differ-ential Privacy protection framework that dynamically assesses privacy risks and applies differentiated protection through risk stratification, adaptive sensitive entity replacement, and exponential mechanism-based text selection. JOURNAL OF L ATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 12 

TABLE VII UTILITY RESULTS ON CHOICE OF HYPERPARAMETER 

HealthCareMagic NQ TQA WQ CT 

𝛾, 𝛼 BLEU ROUGE BLEU ROUGE-L BLEU ROUGE-L BLEU ROUGE-L BLEU ROUGE-L 

0.6, 0.3 0.3182 0.3351 0.0605 0.1344 0.0619 0.1382 0.0597 0.1350 0.0571 0.1299 

0.6, 0.7 0.3153 0.3337 0.0598 0.1326 0.0601 0.1333 0.0627 0.1366 0.0556 0.1278 

0.4, 0.5 0.3190 0.3420 0.0612 0.1351 0.0624 0.1390 0.0603 0.1355 0.0576 0.1305 

0.5, 0.5 0.3211 0.3383 0.0650 0.1411 0.0691 0.1408 0.0622 0.1374 0.0624 0.1401 

0.6, 0.5 0.3275 0.3445 0.0674 0.1437 0.0688 0.1476 0.0666 0.1443 0.0638 0.1392 

TABLE VIII RUNTIME COMPARISON (S ECONDS )Retrieval Protection Total para 6.29 1628.37 1634.66 ZeroGen 6.29 8792.48 8798.77 AttrPrompt 6.29 3681.30 3687.59 Stage-2 6.29 3259.11 3265.40 LPRAG 6.29 3977.83 3984.12 Ours 6.29 2712.26 2718.55 

Extensive experiments on medical dialogue and open-domain question answering benchmarks demonstrate that PA-HDP effectively mitigates both targeted and untargeted privacy attacks while maintaining high retrieval utility. Moreover, un-der rigorous differential privacy guarantees, PA-HDP achieves a favorable trade-off between privacy protection and model performance. We hope this work highlights the importance of query-aware privacy protection and provides a foundation for the secure deployment of RAG systems on sensitive data. 

1) limitation: PA-HDP assumes a fixed privacy budget that is predetermined before deployment. However, in real-world RAG systems, the number of user queries is typically unknown in advance, and privacy budgets may be gradually exhausted as queries accumulate. Future work will investigate adaptive privacy budget allocation and accounting mechanisms to support long-term deployments while maintaining rigorous privacy guarantees. REFERENCES [1] Y. Gao, Y. Xiong, X. Gao, K. Jia, J. Pan, Y. Bi, Y. Dai, J. Sun, M. Wang, and H. Wang, “Retrieval-augmented generation for large language models: A survey,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.10997, 2023. [2] L. Huang, W. Yu, W. Ma, W. Zhong, Z. Feng, H. Wang, Q. Chen, W. Peng, X. Feng, B. Qin et al., “A survey on hallucination in large language models: Principles, taxonomy, challenges, and open questions,” ACM Transactions on Information Systems, vol. 43, no. 2, pp. 1–55, 2025. [3] L. M. Amugongo, P. Mascheroni, S. Brooks, S. Doering, and J. Seidel, “Retrieval augmented generation for large language models in health-care: A systematic review,” PLOS Digital Health, vol. 4, no. 6, p. e0000877, 2025. [4] Y. Zhao, P. Singh, H. Bhathena, B. Ramos, A. Joshi, S. Gadiyaram, and S. Sharma, “Optimizing llm based retrieval augmented genera-tion pipelines in the financial domain,” in Proceedings of the 2024 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (Volume 6: Industry Track), 2024, pp. 279–294. [5] M. Hindi, L. Mohammed, O. Maaz, and A. Alwarafy, “Enhancing the precision and interpretability of retrieval-augmented generation (rag) in legal technology: A survey,” IEEE Access, 2025. [6] S. Zeng, J. Zhang, P. He, Y. Liu, Y. Xing, H. Xu, J. Ren, Y. Chang, S. Wang, D. Yin et al., “The good and the bad: Exploring privacy issues in retrieval-augmented generation (rag),” in Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2024, 2024, pp. 4505–4524. [7] S. Zeng, J. Zhang, P. He, J. Ren, T. Zheng, H. Lu, H. Xu, H. Liu, Y. Xing, and J. Tang, “Mitigating the privacy issues in retrieval-augmented generation (rag) via pure synthetic data,” in Proceedings of the 2025 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 2025, pp. 24 538–24 569. [8] S. Guan, H. C. Kwok, N. F. Law, G. Stiglic, H. Qin, and V. Hui, “Privacy challenges and solutions in retrieval-augmented generation-enhanced llms for healthcare chatbots: A review of applications, risks, and future directions,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.11347, 2025. [9] Y. Mu, H. Hu, F. Li, Q. Yuan, J. Wu, Z. Liu, P. Liu, M. Wang, H. Zhou, and Y. Liu, “Towards secure retrieval-augmented generation: A comprehensive review of threats, defenses and benchmarks,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.21654, 2026. [10] N. Grislain, “Rag with differential privacy,” in 2025 IEEE Conference on Artificial Intelligence (CAI). IEEE, 2025, pp. 847–852. [11] C. Dwork, “Differential privacy,” in Encyclopedia of Cryptography, Security and Privacy. Springer, 2025, pp. 649–652. [12] T. Koga, R. Wu, Z. Zhang, and K. Chaudhuri, “Privacy-preserving retrieval-augmented generation with differential privacy,” 2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04697 [13] A. Hemmat, M. Moqadas, A. Mamanpoosh, A. Rismanchian, and A. Fatemi, “Vague-gate: Plug-and-play local-privacy shield for retrieval-augmented generation,” in Proceedings of the 14th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing and the 4th Conference of the Asia-Pacific Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 2025, pp. 3715–3730. [14] J. Mori, K. Kakizaki, T. Miyagawa, and J. Sakuma, “Differentially private synthetic text generation for retrieval-augmented generation (rag),” arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.06719, 2025. [15] V. Vinod, K. Pillutla, and A. Guha Thakurta, “Invisibleink: High-utility and low-cost text generation with differential privacy,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 38, pp. 67 254–67 298, 2026. [16] H. Wang, X. Xu, B. Huang, and K. Shu, “Privacy-aware decoding: Mit-igating privacy leakage of large language models in retrieval-augmented generation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.03098, 2025. [17] S. Joo, H. Koh, and K. Jung, “Pearl: Differentially private and entropy-aware regulated language generation,” openreview.net/pdf?id=qIUR54yyro, 2026. [18] L. He, P. Tang, Y. Zhang, P. Zhou, and S. Su, “Mitigating privacy risks in retrieval-augmented generation via locally private entity perturbation,” Information Processing & Management, vol. 62, no. 4, p. 104150, 2025. [19] T. Tang, J. Flemings, Y. Wang, and M. Annavaram, “Differentially pri-vate retrieval-augmented generation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.14374, 2026. [20] J. Yu, J. Zhou, Y. Ding, L. Zhang, Y. Guo, and H. Sato, “Textual differ-ential privacy for context-aware reasoning with large language model,” in 2024 IEEE 48th Annual Computers, Software, and Applications Conference (COMPSAC). IEEE, 2024, pp. 988–997. [21] Y. Cheng, L. Zhang, J. Wang, M. Yuan, and Y. Yao, “Remoterag: A privacy-preserving llm cloud rag service,” in Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2025, 2025, pp. 3820–3837. [22] H. Ye, J. Guo, Z. Liu, and K.-Y. Lam, “Efficient privacy-preserving retrieval augmented generation with distance-preserving encryption,” in 2025 3rd International Conference on Foundation and Large Language Models (FLLM). IEEE, 2025, pp. 668–676. JOURNAL OF L ATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 13 

[23] J. Chen, H. Zhang, L. Pang, Y. Tong, H. Zhou, Y. Zhan, W. Lin, and Z. Zheng, “Privacy-preserving reasoning with knowledge-distilled parametric retrieval augmented generation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.01088, 2025. [24] J. He, C. Liu, G. Hou, W. Jiang, and J. Li, “Press: Defending pri-vacy in retrieval-augmented generation via embedding space shifting,” in ICASSP 2025-2025 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2025, pp. 1–5. [25] Y. Wang, H. Zhang, L. Pang, Y. Tong, B. Guo, H. Zheng, and Z. Zheng, “Learning to erase private knowledge from multi-documents for retrieval-augmented large language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.09910, 2025. [26] Z. Charles, A. Ganesh, R. McKenna, H. B. McMahan, N. Mitchell, K. Pillutla, and K. Rush, “Learning with user-level differential privacy under fixed compute budgets,” in 2025 IEEE Conference on Secure and Trustworthy Machine Learning (SaTML). IEEE, 2025, pp. 901–920. [27] F. Boenisch, C. M¨ uhl, A. Dziedzic, R. Rinberg, and N. Papernot, “Have it your way: Individualized privacy assignment for dp-sgd,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 36, pp. 19 073–19 103, 2023. [28] R. Wu, E. Wang, Z. Zhang, and Y.-X. Wang, “Private-rag: Answering multiple queries with llms while keeping your data private,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.07637, 2025. [29] R. Wu, E. Wang, and Y.-X. Wang, “Beyond per-question privacy: Multi-query differential privacy for rag systems,” in NeurIPS 2025 Workshop: Reliable ML from Unreliable Data, 2025. [30] C. Dwork, “Differential privacy,” in International colloquium on automata, languages, and programming. Springer, 2006, pp. 1–12. [31] C. Dwork, F. McSherry, K. Nissim, and A. Smith, “Calibrating noise to sensitivity in private data analysis,” in Theory of Cryptography Conference. Springer, 2006, pp. 265–284. [32] F. McSherry and K. Talwar, “Mechanism design via differential privacy,” in 48th Annual IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS’07). IEEE, 2007, pp. 94–103. [33] Y. Huang, S. Gupta, Z. Zhong, K. Li, and D. Chen, “Privacy implica-tions of retrieval-based language models,” in Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 2023, pp. 14 887–14 902. [34] T. Kwiatkowski, J. Palomaki, O. Redfield, M. Collins, A. Parikh, C. Alberti, D. Epstein, I. Polosukhin, J. Devlin, K. Lee et al., “Natural questions: a benchmark for question answering research,” Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, vol. 7, pp. 453–466, 2019. [35] M. Joshi, E. Choi, D. S. Weld, and L. Zettlemoyer, “Triviaqa: A large scale distantly supervised challenge dataset for reading comprehension,” in Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), 2017, pp. 1601– 1611. [36] J. Berant, A. Chou, R. Frostig, and P. Liang, “Semantic parsing on freebase from question-answer pairs,” in Proceedings of the 2013 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing, 2013, pp. 1533–1544. [37] P. Baudiˇ s and J. ˇ Sediv` y, “Modeling of the question answering task in the yodaqa system,” in International Conference of the cross-language evaluation Forum for European languages. Springer, 2015, pp. 222– 228. [38] J. Ye, J. Gao, Q. Li, H. Xu, J. Feng, Z. Wu, T. Yu, and L. Kong, “Zero-gen: Efficient zero-shot learning via dataset generation,” in Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 2022, pp. 11 653–11 669. [39] Y. Yu, Y. Zhuang, J. Zhang, Y. Meng, A. J. Ratner, R. Krishna, J. Shen, and C. Zhang, “Large language model as attributed training data generator: A tale of diversity and bias,” Advances in neural information processing systems, vol. 36, pp. 55 734–55 784, 2023. [40] N. Carlini, F. Tramer, E. Wallace, M. Jagielski, A. Herbert-Voss, K. Lee, A. Roberts, T. Brown, D. Song, U. Erlingsson et al., “Extracting training data from large language models,” in 30th USENIX security symposium (USENIX Security 21), 2021, pp. 2633–2650. 

APPENDIX 

A. Missing experimental results 

Table IX reports the utility results on all datasets under different privacy budgets. Overall, the proposed method ex-hibits a clear privacy–utility trade-off: as the privacy budget 

𝜖 increases, the utility metrics generally improve across all datasets. This trend is expected, since a larger privacy bud-get introduces less perturbation during the privacy-preserving generation process, allowing the generated responses to better preserve the semantic information of the retrieved content. More importantly, the performance degradation under strin-gent privacy budgets remains relatively small. Even with a very strong privacy guarantee ( 𝜖 = 0.1), the BLEU and ROUGE scores are only slightly lower than those obtained with much larger privacy budgets. For example, on the HealthCareMagic dataset, the ROUGE score increases from 0.3387 at 𝜖 = 0.1

to only 0.3501 at 𝜖 = 10 , while similar trends are observed on the remaining datasets. This demonstrates that our method effectively preserves generation quality while providing rig-orous differential privacy guarantees, making it suitable for privacy-sensitive RAG applications. The relatively stable performance across a wide range of privacy budgets indicates that the proposed prompt-aware mechanism can accurately identify privacy-critical content, enabling the privacy budget to be utilized efficiently rather than perturbing all retrieved information uniformly. 

B. Differential Privacy Guarantee of PA-HDP 

We prove that PA-HDP satisfies differential privacy by decomposing the algorithm into three components: (i) Laplace perturbation for risk scoring, (ii) post-processing-based hier-archical filtering, and (iii) exponential mechanism for private candidate selection. The overall privacy guarantee follows from sequential composition and post-processing invariance. 

a) Step 1: Laplace Mechanism for Risk Score.: For each segment 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , the risk score is computed as 𝑆 𝑡𝑜𝑡 𝑎𝑙 (𝑞, 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ).Since the risk score is normalized to the interval [0, 1],changing one neighboring segment under the semantic metric alters the score by at most one. Therefore, the semantic sensitivity of the risk score is bounded by Δ𝑆 = 1.To privately release the risk score, PA-HDP allocates half of the total privacy budget, i.e., 𝜖 /2, and adds Laplace noise: 

𝑆 ∗ 

> 𝑡𝑜𝑡 𝑎𝑙

(𝑞, 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) = 𝑆 𝑡𝑜𝑡 𝑎𝑙 (𝑞, 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) + Lap 

 2

𝜖 



.

Lemma A.1. The above mechanism satisfies (𝜖 /2, 0)-Semantic Metric Differential Privacy. Proof. Since the semantic sensitivity of the released risk score is Δ𝑆 = 1, adding Laplace noise with scale 

Δ𝑆 𝜖 /2 = 2

𝜖 

guarantees (𝜖 /2, 0)-Semantic Metric Differential Privacy ac-cording to the Laplace mechanism under the semantic met-ric. □

b) Step 2: Hierarchical Filtering (Post-processing).: The algorithm applies thresholding: 

𝑆 ∗ 

> 𝑡𝑜𝑡 𝑎𝑙

(𝑞, 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) ≥ 𝜏 1.

Since this operation is a deterministic function of the DP output 𝑆 ∗ 

> 𝑡𝑜𝑡 𝑎𝑙

, by the post-processing theorem of differential privacy, it does not incur additional privacy loss. JOURNAL OF L ATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 14     

> TABLE IX UTILITY RESULTS UNDER DIFFERENT PRIVACY BUDGETS

HealthCareMagic NQ TQA WQ CT 

𝜖 BLEU ROUGE BLEU ROUGE-L BLEU ROUGE-L BLEU ROUGE-L BLEU ROUGE-L 0.1 0.3231 0.3387 0.0666 0.1429 0.0638 0.1383 0.0592 0.1381 0.0623 0.1369 1 0.3266 0.3445 0.0672 0.1435 0.0673 0.1444 0.0629 0.1429 0.0638 0.1387 5 0.3275 0.3445 0.0674 0.1437 0.0688 0.1476 0.0666 0.1443 0.0638 0.1392 10 0.3337 0.3501 0.0676 0.1452 0.0676 0.1435 0.0685 0.1437 0.0650 0.1409 

c) Step 3: Exponential Mechanism for Candidate Selec-tion.: 

Lemma IV.1[Semantic Exponential Mechanism] Let C be a finite candidate text set, and let 

𝑢 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ) = −𝛼 · 𝑑 sem (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ) − ( 1 − 𝛼 ) · 𝑟 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ),

where 𝛼 ≥ 0. The Semantic Exponential Mechanism selects an output 𝑠 ∗ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

∈ C according to the probability distribution 

Pr [𝑀 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) = 𝑠 ∗ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

] =

exp 

 𝜖 𝑢 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ,𝑠 ∗ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗 )
> 2

Í 

> 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ∈ C

exp 

 𝜖 𝑢 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ,𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 )

> 2

 .

Then 𝑀 satisfies (𝜖, 0)-Semantic Metric Differential Privacy. 

Proof. To prove that the mechanism satisfies Semantic Metric Differential Privacy, it suffices to show that the utility function is Lipschitz continuous with respect to the semantic metric 𝑑 𝜙 ,namely, 

|𝑢 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ) − 𝑢 (𝑠 ′ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

, 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 )| ≤ Δ𝑢 𝑑 𝜙 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 ′ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

).

For the proposed utility function 

𝑢 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ) = −𝛼 · 𝑑 sem (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ) − ( 1 − 𝛼 ) · 𝑟 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ),

we first analyze the semantic preservation term: 

Δ𝑢 (sem ) = 𝑑 sem (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ) − 𝑑 sem (𝑠 ′ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

, 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 )

= ∥𝜙 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) − 𝜙 (𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 )∥ 2 − ∥ 𝜙 (𝑠 ′ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

) − 𝜙 (𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 )∥ 2

≤ ∥ 𝜙 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) − 𝜙 (𝑠 ′ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

)∥ 2

= 𝑑 𝜙 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 ′ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

).

Thus, the semantic preservation term is 1-Lipschitz contin-uous with respect to 𝑑 𝜙 . Since this term is weighted by 𝛼 , its contribution to the overall sensitivity is bounded by 𝛼 .Next, we analyze the privacy risk term: 

𝑟 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ) = max    

> 𝑒 ∈𝐸 (𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 )

cos (𝜙 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ), 𝜙 (𝑒 )) ,

where 𝐸 (𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ) denotes the set of sensitive entities extracted from the candidate text 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 . Assuming all embedding vectors are normalized, the cosine similarity is equivalent to the inner product. For two adjacent texts 𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ∼ 𝑠 ′ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

, we have 

Δ𝑢 (risk ) = |𝑟 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ) − 𝑟 (𝑠 ′ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

, 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 )| 

= max    

> 𝑒 ∈𝐸 (𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 )

cos (𝜙 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ), 𝜙 (𝑒 )) − max    

> 𝑒 ∈𝐸 (𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 )

cos (𝜙 (𝑠 ′ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

), 𝜙 (𝑒 )) 

≤ max    

> 𝑒 ∈𝐸 (𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 )

|( 𝜙 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) − 𝜙 (𝑠 ′ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

)) ⊤ 𝜙 (𝑒 )| ≤ ∥ 𝜙 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) − 𝜙 (𝑠 ′ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

)∥ 2 · ∥ 𝜙 (𝑒 )∥ 2

≤ 𝑑 𝜙 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 ′ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

).

Therefore, the privacy risk term is also 1-Lipschitz continu-ous with respect to the semantic metric 𝑑 𝜙 . Since this term is weighted by (1 − 𝛼 ), its contribution to the overall sensitivity is bounded by (1 − 𝛼 ).Combining both terms yields 

|𝑢 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 ) − 𝑢 (𝑠 ′ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

, 𝑠 𝑣 𝑖, 𝑗 )| ≤ ( 𝛼 + ( 1 − 𝛼 )) 𝑑 𝜙 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 ′ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

).

Hence, the global sensitivity of the utility function under the semantic metric is bounded by 

Δ𝑢 ≤ 𝛼 + ( 1 − 𝛼 ) = 1.

Substituting the sensitivity bound into the exponential mech-anism gives 

Pr [𝑀 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 ) = 𝑠 ∗ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

] ∝ exp 

©«

− 𝜖 

2



𝛼 · 𝑑 sem (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 ∗ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

)+ ( 1 − 𝛼 ) · 𝑟 (𝑠 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑠 ∗ 

> 𝑖, 𝑗

)

ª®®®®®¬

which matches the formulation stated in the lemma. There-fore, the mechanism satisfies (𝜖, 0)-Semantic Metric Differen-tial Privacy. 

□

d) Step 4: Composition Over Segments.: Since the pri-vacy budget 𝜖 /2 is evenly allocated to the high-risk and medium-risk segments, by the sequential composition theo-rem, these two mechanisms together satisfy (𝜖 /2, 0)-Semantic Metric Differential Privacy. 

e) Theorem (Privacy Guarantee of PA-HDP).: PA-HDP satisfies (𝜖, 0)-Semantic Metric Differential Privacy. 

Proof. The mechanism consists of: (i) Semantic Laplace mechanism satisfying (𝜖, 0)-Semantic Metric Differential Pri-vacy, (ii) post-processing operations preserving DP, (iii) Se-mantic exponential mechanism satisfying (𝜖, 0)-Semantic Met-ric Differential Privacy. JOURNAL OF L ATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 15 

By sequential composition and post-processing invariance, the overall mechanism satisfies (𝜖, 0)-Semantic Metric Differ-ential Privacy. □

C. Details of Field Sensitivity Weights 

To instantiate the field sensitivity defined in Section X, we assign a predefined leakage risk weight 𝑤 𝑘 ∈ [ 0, 1] to each sensitive entity category. The weights are manually designed according to the potential privacy harm caused by disclosing each entity type, following the principle that entities enabling direct identity disclosure receive substantially higher scores than contextual or auxiliary information. Specifically, we divide sensitive entities into two broad categories. 

a) High-risk entities ( 𝑤 𝑘 ∈ [0.5, 1.0]): These entities can directly identify an individual or expose highly sensitive credentials (Table X ).               

> TABLE X HIGH -RISK ENTITIES
> Entity Type Weight Description ID Number 0.95 Unique personal identifier with se-vere privacy leakage risk Phone Number 0.90 Direct contact identifier Person Name 0.90 Primary identity attribute Email Address 0.75 Online identity linkage Password 0.80 Authentication credential MED-HIGH 0.85 Diagnosis of high-risk diseases

b) Low-risk entities ( 𝑤 𝑘 ∈ [0.1, 0.5]): These entities mainly provide contextual or auxiliary information (Table XI ).               

> TABLE XI LOW -RISK ENTITIES
> Entity Type Weight Description Location 0.30 Geographical contextual informa-tion Organization 0.40 Affiliation or institutional context Vital Signs 0.20 Basic physiological measurements Amount 0.50 Financial context without identity disclosure Date 0.20 Temporal information MED-MED 0.10 Common disorder

We emphasize that the specific numerical values are em-pirically defined and can be adapted to different application scenarios without modifying the overall framework. 

D. Implementation Details of Baseline Approaches 

We adopt the baseline methods and implementation proto-cols from the work of Zeng et al. [7]. The detailed implemen-tation settings are described as follows. 

1) Paraphrase: This approach employs large language models to extract relevant and essential components from the retrieved passages. Insignificant portions can be discarded, while selected sentences are rephrased to improve clarity or relevance. The instruction template we use for paraphrasing is provided in Table XII.    

> TABLE XII PROMPT OF PARAPHRASE
> Prompt
> Given the following context, extract the useful or important part of the Context. Remember, *DO NOT* edit the extracted parts of the context.
> >Context:
> >>>
> {input_context }
> >>>
> Extracted relevant parts:

2) ZeroGen: The ZeroGen strategy is designed to produce a new set of question–answer pairs derived from the original passage. In practice, we first apply the spaCy toolkit to recog-nize named entity mentions in the source text. We then feed the LLM with the prompt: “The context is: original context. extracted entities is the answer to the following question: ” to solicit corresponding questions. The newly constructed context comprises 10 randomly chosen question–answer pairs, for-matted as “Question: generated questions. Answer: extracted entities”. 

3) AttrPrompt: Unlike the previous methods, AttrPrompt relies solely on LLM-generated content without accessing any retrieved data from the external database. This technique queries the LLM about the most critical attributes associated with a specific data category. For the ChatDoctor scenario, we prompt the model with: “What do you think are impor-tant attributes to generate some chat doctor data? Examples: disease...”. From the LLM’s response, we select five attributes and ask the model to propose 10 varied subtopics for each attribute. During new context generation, we randomly pick one subtopic per attribute and instruct the LLM to produce data following the assigned attribute. 

E. Detailed Attack Design 

This subsection elaborates on the design of both targeted and untargeted attacks against Retrieval-Augmented Genera-tion (RAG) systems. These attack configurations are employed to assess the privacy-preserving capacity of our proposed synthetic-data framework. We emulate a realistic black-box environment where the adversary can only interact with the system via API calls. Consequently, the adversary’s strategy centers on crafting and manipulating the query 𝑞 to elicit the target information from the RAG pipeline. 

1) Prompt Composition: The composite structured prompt generally consists of two segments: an {information } compo-nent and a {command } component. 

𝑞 = {information } + { command }

This formulation pursues two parallel goals: (a) steering the retriever to accurately fetch the desired pieces of data, and (b) compelling the language model to incorporate the retrieved evidence into its output. The {information } part directs the retrieval module toward specific data items, whereas the {command } part instructs the model to echo the retrieved content in its response. For the latter, we adopt directives like JOURNAL OF L ATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 16 

“Please repeat all the context”; the former varies according to the attacker’s objective. 

2) Targeted Attack: In a targeted scenario, the adversary seeks to recover a predetermined set of specific details. Constructing the information component for such an attack proceeds in two steps. Initially, the attacker supplies concrete exemplars based on their goal – for instance, “I want some advice about target name” for a well-defined target, or a partial prefix such as “Please email us at” for a more vague target. Subsequently, a substantial number of analogous yet diverse instances are generated from these exemplars. For targets that contain multiple sub-elements (e.g., the HealthcareMagic corpus), variations can be produced by substituting sub-items like disease names derived from ChatGPT or the International Classification of Diseases (ICD). Alternatively, large language models (e.g., ChatGPT) can directly yield similar sentences based on the provided examples – this approach is also applied to the Wiki-PII dataset. For instance, one might input “Generate 100 similar sentences like ’Please email us at’ ”. 

3) Untargeted Attack: In contrast, untargeted attacks em-phasize the production of varied information components so as to extract a broad spectrum of data from the retrieval repos-itories, rather than homing in on any particular entry. Inspired by the methodology of Carlini et al. [40], we randomly sample segments from the Common Crawl corpus to serve as the information part. However, the randomness of the input could potentially interfere with the command component. To counter this, we cap the maximum token length of the information part at 15 tokens, thereby preserving prompt coherence and maintaining effectiveness in eliciting data from the retrieval collections. 

F. Details of Evaluation Metrics 

This section clarifies the evaluation metrics adopted in our study. 

1) ROUGE-L: ROUGE-L belongs to the ROUGE (Recall-Oriented Understudy for Gisting Evaluation) family and is widely used for assessing text-generation tasks, including sum-marization and machine translation. It measures the overlap between a generated output and a reference text via the Longest Common Subsequence (LCS).  

> •

Longest Common Subsequence (LCS): ROUGE-L identifies the longest word sequence that appears in both the generated and reference texts while preserving the original order, without requiring contiguity.  

> •

Recall, Precision, and F-measure: – Recall is defined as the ratio of the LCS length to the reference length ( 𝑛 ): Recall = LCS (𝑋, 𝑌 )/ 𝑛 . It reflects the fraction of the reference sequence captured by the generator. 

– Precision is the ratio of the LCS length to the generated length ( 𝑚 ): Precision = LCS (𝑋, 𝑌 )/ 𝑚 . It indicates how much of the generated content aligns with the reference. 

– The F-measure, which balances precision and recall via their harmonic mean, is computed as: 

𝐹 lcs = (1 + 𝛽 2) · 𝑅 lcs · 𝑃 lcs 

𝑅 lcs + 𝛽 2 · 𝑃 lcs 

where 𝛽 controls the trade-off between precision and recall (typically set to 1.0). In our experimental results, we report the F-measure as the ROUGE-L score. Let 𝐶 denote the candidate translation, and 𝑅 represent the set of reference translations. 

2) BLEU-1: BLEU-1 evaluates translation quality based on unigram precision.  

> •

Unigram precision: 

𝑃 1 =

Í𝑤 min  Count 𝐶 (𝑤 ), max Count 𝑅 (𝑤 )Í𝑤 Count 𝐶 (𝑤 )

where Count 𝐶 (𝑤 ) is the frequency of word 𝑤 in the can-didate, and max Count 𝑅 (𝑤 ) is the maximum frequency of 𝑤 across any single reference translation.  

> •

Brevity penalty (BP): 

BP = min 



1, exp 



1 − 𝑟 𝑐 

 

where 𝑐 is the candidate length and 𝑟 is the reference length that is closest to 𝑐 . 

> •

Final BLEU-1 score: 

BLEU-1 = BP × 𝑃 1

The score ranges from 0 to 1, with 1 indicating perfect unigram matching against the reference. 

3) Additional Metrics: Beyond the above, we incorporate several new metrics to further corroborate our approach:  

> •

Exact Match (EM): This metric checks whether the ground-truth answer appears verbatim within the LLM’s generated response.  

> •

LLM-based Correctness Judgment: We employ Ragas, a widely adopted automatic evaluation pipeline for RAG (with over 5.9k stars on GitHub), to assess the factual correctness of the generated answers. 

G. Construction of Wiki-PII Dataset 

To assess the privacy-preserving performance of our pro-posed approach against targeted extraction attempts, we adopt the dataset construction methodology introduced in [7] to create the Wiki-PII dataset. This corpus is specifically de-signed to contain a substantial volume of personally identi-fiable information (PII), thereby providing a rigorous testbed for evaluating privacy-protection strategies. The construction procedure comprises three main phases. 1) PII extraction: We first harvested real PII instances from the Enron Mail corpus. Specifically, we employed the urlextract library to extract web URLs and applied regular expressions to capture phone numbers and personal email addresses. 2) Text chunking: In the second phase, we partitioned the Wikipedia text collection using the recursive character JOURNAL OF L ATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 17 

text splitter provided by LangChain, with a chunk size of 1500 characters. 3) PII insertion: Finally, for each resulting text chunk, we randomly appended the extracted PII items to the end of every sentence within that chunk. 

H. Dataset Preparation Details 

In our experiments, we adopt the configuration established in prior RAG privacy research [33] to simulate a realistic scenario where a large-scale public repository inadvertently contains certain private information — for instance, personal names or phone numbers that appear within broadly accessible web content. In practice, virtually any sentence in a text corpus may carry privacy-sensitive entities. Consequently, embedding PII into the dataset serves as a plausible and effective strategy for modeling such real-world privacy risks. 

I. Examples of Protected Contexts 

Table XIII presents representative examples of the protected query–response pairs in the retrieval corpus. Compared with the original records, the protected versions effectively obfus-cate privacy-sensitive information while preserving the se-mantic content required for downstream retrieval. Specifically, sensitive entities, including medication names, disease de-scriptions, temporal information, numerical values, and demo-graphic attributes, are replaced with plausible alternatives or generalized expressions, making it substantially more difficult to recover the original records or infer personal information. Despite these perturbations, the protected query–response pairs largely retain their original semantics. In the first ex-ample, although several medications and personal details are replaced, the protected record still clearly describes a fertility-related consultation and its corresponding medical advice. Similarly, in the second example, detailed medical history and treatment information are concealed, while the protected response continues to capture the clinical recommendation regarding pregnancy risk. These examples demonstrate that our protection mechanism effectively removes privacy-sensitive content while preserving the essential medical knowledge required for retrieval. We also observe that stronger perturbations may occa-sionally introduce minor semantic deviations or less natural expressions, as illustrated in the third example. Nevertheless, the overall medical intent and question–answer correspon-dence remain largely intact, ensuring that the protected corpus continues to provide useful evidence for retrieval-augmented generation. These qualitative examples further demonstrate that our method achieves a favorable balance between privacy protection and retrieval utility. 

J. Discussions when Adapting PA-HDP to Domain-Specific Applications 

Although PA-HDP is presented in the context of medical and QA RAG, the overall framework is domain-independent and can be readily adapted to other application scenarios. The primary modification lies in the sensitive entity extraction module, as different domains involve different categories of privacy-sensitive information. Specifically, our framework relies on the extracted sensitive entities to estimate field sensitivity and subsequently allocate privacy budgets. Therefore, when applying PA-HDP to a new domain, the Named Entity Recognition (NER) model and rule-based extraction patterns should be customized according to the domain-specific privacy taxonomy. For example, in the financial domain, sensitive entities may include bank account numbers, credit card numbers, transaction records, and customer identifiers, while in the legal domain, case numbers, client identities, and confidential agreements may require protection. Existing domain-specific NER models can be directly integrated into our framework, or custom entity recognizers can be trained when annotated data are available. In addition, the predefined sensitivity weights assigned to different entity types should be adjusted to reflect their privacy risks in the target domain. Since the subsequent privacy budget allocation only depends on the extracted entity categories and their corresponding sensitivity scores, no modification to the remaining components of PA-HDP is required. This modular design enables PA-HDP to be easily extended to diverse privacy-sensitive RAG applications while preserving its query-aware privacy protection mechanism. JOURNAL OF L ATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 18 

TABLE XIII EXAMPLES OF PROTECTED CONTEXTS 

Original context Protected context input: yes, can you tell me if lisinopril hctz , omeprazole , and simvastain effect my husbands sperm or fertility ? we are trying to get pregnant and have been for 9yrs and we have been to dr after dr test after test ... and no answers. so im doing some findings and wanting to know about his meds. thanks output: Hi, Thanks for writing to Chat Doctor. Let me explain you one by one. Surprisingly there are fewer studies or researches on this topic. Omeprazole is not know to cause any adverse effect on sperm count or fertility. Lisinopril is not having direct effect on sperm count, but it effects fertility by following side effects—Decreased interest in sexual intercourse-inability to have or keep an erection-lack or loss of strength-loss in sexual ability, desire, Chat Doctor. But these are rare side effects. Simvastin rarely cause erectile dysfunction. It is also shown in some studies that it reduce testosterone levels which is required for sperm production. This may be the cause of reduced sperm count. You can discuss with your doctor to switch to alternative. input: yes, can you tell me if Eurax hctz , breakage of acid bottle , and smoke effect my husbands sperm or fertility. we are trying to get pregnant and have been for 6.8yrs and we have been to dr after dr test after test. and no answers. so im doing some findings and wanting to know about his meds. thanks. output: hi, thanks for writing to chat doctor. let me explain you one by one. surprisingly there are fewer studies or researches on this topic. palmetto is not know to cause any adverse effect on sperm count or fertility. lisinopril is not having direct effect on sperm count, but it effects fertility by following side effects—decreased interest in sexual intercourse-inability to have or keep an erection-lack or loss of strength-loss in sexual ability, desire, chat doctor. but these are rare side effects. simvastin rarely cause erectile dysfunction. it is also shown in some studies that it reduce testosterone levels which is required for sperm production. this may be the cause of reduced sperm count. you can discuss with your doctor to switch to alternative. input: My wife has pulmonary fibrosis 2yrs now doing fair,cough present but functional.this past feb. she had her ascend colon removed secondary to colon cancer stage 1c(2).no chemo was needed....a month ago she turns up pregnant. My question is how dangerous is it for her to have this child.she is 42,not in great shape from 2 yrs of of meds ,prednisone(ended in April). output: Hi and welcome to Chat Doctor, thank you for your query. Considering all this, her pregnancy may be risky, and you should consult gynecologist before you decide to have baby. Her condition is serious, and it may have bad effect on possible pregnancy and baby. So I wouldst suggest going on without more detailed consultation with gynecologist. Wish you good health. Regards. input: My wife has pulmonary WAS EXPERIENCING Sunday now doing fair,irritable present but functional. this past feb. she had her ascend colon removed secondary to cancer 1c(2). no chemo was needed. a week she turns up pregnant. my question is how dangerous is it for her to have this child. she is 42,not in great shape from 2 yrs of of meds ,prednisone(ended in april). output: Hi and welcome to chat doctor, thank you for your query. considering all this, her pregnancy may be risky, and you should consult gynecologist before you decide to have baby. her condition is serious, and it may have neurotoxic on possible pregnancy and baby. so i wouldst suggest going on without more detailed consultation with gynecologist. wish you good health. regards. input: Hi my daughter of 4.5 years old is suffering from cough and fever since yesterday morning. Can I give her zifi 100 mg ready syrup . Last year doctor had advised her same antibiotic with crocin and for fever and cough. What should be the dosage for her. output: Hello, I am sorry your daughter is ill. With the symptoms you listed-cough and fever- it is likely that she has a viral respiratory illness. There are more viruses than bacteria that cause respiratory infections. How high is her fever? Is her appetite normal? Does she have her usual level of activity? The severity of a viral respiratory illness is usually less that for a bacterial respiratory illness. WiFi is a brand name for the antibiotic called Definite. While this is a good antibiotic to treat various bacterial infections, it does not treat viral infections. In fact, no antibiotic does. Plus, WiFi, like all Chat Doctor. Some of its side effects are:-headache-loss of appetite-bloody or watery stool-dizziness-itchy rash-swelling of face, lips, tongue So for the symptoms you provided, this medicine most probably will not be effective, and it could cause side effects. Based on the information given, I feel it is not a good idea to give her this medicine. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further. input: hi my daughter of 4. 22nd April is suffering from blisters of 0 and 3 days around 3 minutes. Can i give her zifi 94 mg ready syrup. 9 weeks doctor had advised her same antibiotic with breakage of acid bottle for bad nappy rash and cough. what should be the dosage for her. output: hello, i am sorry your daughter is ill. with a brain tumor you listed-cough and fever- it is likely that she has a viral allergic reaction. there are more viruses than bacteria that cause ascitis. how high is her cough. is her appetite normal. does she have her usual level of activity. the severity of a viral respiratory illness is usually less that for a bacterial respiratory illness. wifi is a brand name for the antibiotic called definite. while this is a good antibiotic to treat various bacterial infections, it does not treat bad back pain. in fact, no antibiotic does. plus, wifi, like all chat doctor. some of its side effects stomach pains of abd painf face, lips, tongue so for this pain medication you provided, this medicine most probably will not be effective, and it could cause side effects. based on the information given, i feel it is not a good idea to give her this medicine. hope i have answered your query. let me know if i can assist you further.