Title: 2025.emnlp-main.710.pdf

URL Source: https://aclanthology.org/2025.emnlp-main.710.pdf

Published Time: Sat, 03 Jan 2026 16:57:41 GMT

Number of Pages: 20

Markdown Content:
Proceedings of the 2025 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 14063–14082 November 4-9, 2025 ©2025 Association for Computational Linguistics TableRAG: A Retrieval Augmented Generation Framework for Heterogeneous Document Reasoning 

Xiaohan Yu ∗, Pu Jian ∗, Chong Chen #

Huawei Cloud BU, Beijing 

{yuxiaohan5, jinapu2, chenchong55}@huawei.com 

https://github.com/yxh-y/TableRAG 

Abstract 

Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has demonstrated considerable effectiveness in open-domain question answering. However, when applied to heterogeneous documents, comprising both textual and tabular compo-nents, existing RAG approaches exhibit critical limitations. The prevailing practice of flatten-ing tables and chunking strategies disrupts the intrinsic tabular structure, leads to information loss, and undermines the reasoning capabilities of LLMs in multi-hop, global queries. To ad-dress these challenges, we propose TableRAG, an SQL-based framework that unifies textual understanding and complex manipulations over tabular data. TableRAG iteratively operates in four steps: context-sensitive query decomposi-tion, text retrieval, SQL programming and exe-cution, and compositional intermediate answer generation. We also develop HeteQA, a novel benchmark designed to evaluate the multi-hop heterogeneous reasoning capabilities. Experi-mental results demonstrate that TableRAG con-sistently outperforms existing baselines on both public datasets and our HeteQA, establishing a new state-of-the-art for heterogeneous docu-ment question answering. 

1 Introduction 

Heterogeneous document-based question answer-ing (Chen et al., 2020), which necessitates reason-ing over both unstructured text and structured tabu-lar data, presents substantial challenges. Tables are characterized by interdependent rows and columns, while natural language texts are sequential. Bridg-ing this divergence within a unified QA system remains a non-trivial task. The prevailing approach extends the retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) paradigm, in which the tables are linearized into textual representations (e.g., Markdown) (Gao et al., 2023; Jin and Lu, 

> 1∗

These authors contributed equally to this work. 

> 2

# Corresponding author. Huawei Proprietary  - Restricted Distribution 1                  

> Title Release date …Publisher LIVE Games on
> Demand
> 007 : Quantum
> of Solace
> 2008 -11 -04 ... Activision YN
> (Abbreviated Table content…..)
> Lego Batman :
> The Videogame
> 2008 -09 -23 Warner Bros. Interactive
> Entertainment
> NY
> What percentage of games published by Activision in 2008 are still live
> (have ‘Y’ in the live column) compared to all live games in the List of
> Games for Windows titles ?
> 2008_in_video_ gaming: 2008 has seen many sequels and prequels in video games . New intellectual properties
> include Army of Two , Dead Space , Left 4 Dead , LittleBigPlanet , Mirror 's Edge , Race Driver : Grid , Grand
> Theft Auto IV and Spore……
> Top Nrelevant chunks
> RAG Paradigm
> 50 % of games published by
> Activision in 2008 are still
> live compared to all live
> games.
> TableRAG
> 20% of the games published
> by Activision in 2008 are still
> live compared to all live
> games.

Figure 1: An example of the heterogeneous document based question answering task. 

2023; Ye et al., 2023b). Typically, chunking strate-gies are employed (Finardi et al., 2024), wherein flattened tables are segmented and merged with ad-jacent text spans. During inference, the LLMs gen-erate answers based on the top-N retrieved chunks. However, these methodologies are predominantly tailored to scenarios that require only surface-level comprehension of tables, such as direct answer extraction (Pasupat and Liang, 2015a; Zhu et al., 2021). When applied to extensive documents that interleave textual and tabular elements, existing RAG methodologies exhibit critical limitations: • Structural Information Loss: The tabular struc-ture integrity is compromised, leading to infor-mation loss or irrelevant context that impedes downstream LLMs performance. • Lack of Global View: Due to document fragmen-tation, the RAG system struggles with multi-hop global queries (Edge et al., 2024), such as ag-gregation, mathematical computations, and other reasoning tasks that require a holistic understand-ing across entire tables. 

14063 As illustrated in Figure 1, the RAG approach com-putes percentage over the top-N most relevant chunks rather than the full table, and thus results in an incorrect answer. To address these limitations of existing RAG systems, we propose TableRAG, an SQL-based framework that dynamically transitions between textual understanding and complex manipulations over tabular data. TableRAG interacts with tables by leveraging SQL as an interface. Concretely, the framework operates via a two-stage process: an offline database construction phase and an on-line inference phase of iterative reasoning. The iterative reasoning procedure comprises four core operations: (i) context-sensitive query decomposi-tion, (ii) text retrieval, (iii) SQL programming and execution, and (iv) intermediate answer generation. The utilization of SQL enables precise symbolic execution by treating table-related queries as in-divisible reasoning units, thereby enhancing both computational efficiency and reasoning fidelity. To facilitate rigorous evaluation of multi-hop reason-ing over heterogeneous documents, we introduce HeteQA, a novel benchmark consisting of 304 ex-amples across nine diverse domains. Each example contains a composition across five distinct tabu-lar operations. We evaluate TableRAG on both established public benchmarks and our HeteQA dataset against strong baselines, including generic RAG and program-aided approaches. Experimen-tal results demonstrate that TableRAG consistently achieves state-of-the-art performance. Overall, our contributions are summarized as follows: • We identify two key limitations of existing RAG approaches in the context of heterogeneous docu-ment question answering: structural information loss and lack of global view. • We propose TableRAG, an SQL-based frame-work that unifies textual understanding and com-plex manipulations over tabular data. TableRAG comprises an offline database construction phase and a four-step online iterative reasoning process. • We develop HeteQA, a benchmark for evaluating multi-hop heterogeneous reasoning capabilities. Experimental results show that TableRAG out-performs RAG and programmatic approaches on HeteQA and public benchmarks, establishing a state-of-the-art solution. 

2 Task Formulation 

In the context of the heterogeneous document ques-tion answering task, we define the task input as extensive documents, denoted as (T , D) where T

denotes the textual contents and D refers to the tabular components. Given a user question q, the objective of this task is to optimize a function F

that, given the combined textual and tabular con-text, can produce the correct answer A:

F(D, T , q ) → A . (1) 

3 TableRAG Framework 

3.1 Overview and Design Principles 

We propose TableRAG, an SQL-based framework designed to preserve table structural integrity and facilitate heterogeneous reasoning. As depicted in Figure 2, TableRAG consists of offline and on-line workflows. The offline phase is tasked with database construction, while the online phase fa-cilitates iterative reasoning. The reasoning proce-dure unfolds in a four-stage process: (i) Context-sensitive query decomposition, which identifies the respective roles of textual and tabular modalities within the query. (ii) Text retrieval. (iii) SQL pro-gramming and execution, which is selectively in-voked for subqueries requiring tabular data reason-ing. (iv) Compositional intermediate answer gen-eration. The preferential use of SQL is motivated by its capacity to leverage the expressive strength of symbolic execution over structured data, thereby enabling tabular components within user queries to be treated as monolithic reasoning units. In con-trast, other languages like Python incur substantial computational overhead when dealing with large-scale data or complex workloads (Shahrokhi et al., 2024). 

3.2 Database Construction 

In the offline stage, we first extract structured com-ponents from heterogeneous documents, yielding a set of tables D = {D 1, . . . , DM }. To enable infor-mation retrieval, we construct two parallel corpora: a textual knowledge base and a tabular schema database. The textual knowledge base comprises both the raw texts T and the Markdown-rendered form of each table, denoted as ˆD. Both ˆD and T

are segmented into chunks, which are then embed-ded into dense vector representations using a pre-trained language model (Chen et al., 2024a). For 14064 Document 

> chunking
> Document-oriented
> Database
> Table Schema
> Extraction
> Relational
> Database
> Table Parsing
> Retrival
> Results
> Table Schema
> {
> "table_name": "<Table Name>",
> "columns": [
> ["<ColName>", "<Type>", "<Examples>"],
> ...
> ]
> }
> Any table chunks in
> TopN results?
> Sub Query
> +
> Table Schema
> Extract SQL
> and
> Get excution result
> NL2SQL
> Please answer the question {question}
> based on the following materials：
> ##
> {SQL excution results}
> …
> {Doc retrieval results}
> Ingestion
> Trigger the workflow
> of fetching results from DB
> Table Content
> Offline Phase: Database construction
> Online Phase: Interative reasoning
> Document
> chunk Retrival
> Text Retrival
> User
> Final Answer
> Generation
> SQL programing and execution
> chunk
> Mapping
> Sub Query
> Query
> Decompision
> Table Schema
> Table Component
> Text Component
> Heterogeneous
> Documents (word,
> pdf, csv, execl
> .etc)
> Original
> Query
> Yes
> Summarize
> reference materials
> from both source

Figure 2: The overall architecture of TableRAG. 

tabular schema database construction, we represent each table Di by a standardized schema description 

S(Di), derived via a template as follows: 

Table Schema Template 

{"table_name": "<Table Name>", "columns": [ ["<ColName>", "<Type>", "<Examples>"], ... ]}

Then, we define a mapping from each flattened table chunk to its originating table schema: 

f : ˆDi,j → S(Di) (2) where ˆDi,j denotes the j-th chunk derived from table ˆDi. This mapping ensures that local segments remain contextually anchored to the table structure from which they are derived. The tables are also ingested in a relational database (e.g., MySQL 1), supporting symbolic query execution in the subsequent online reasoning. 

> 1

https://github.com/mysql 

3.3 Iterative Reasoning 

To address multi-hop, global queries that require compositional reasoning over texts and tables, we introduce an iterative inference process aligned with F in Equation 1. This process comprises four core operations: (i) context-sensitive query decomposition, (ii) text retrieval, (iii) program and execute SQL, and (iv) compositional intermediate answer generation. Through repeated cycles of de-composition and resolution, a solution to the query is progressively constructed. Detailed prompt tem-plates are provided in Appendix G. 

Context-Sensitive Query Decomposition We explicitly delineate the respective roles of textual and tabular modalities during the reasoning pro-cess. While a table-related query may involve multiple semantic reasoning steps, its tabular res-olution can collapse to a single executable oper-ation. Consequently, an effective decomposition of global queries demands more than mere syntac-tic segmentation, but also structural awareness of the underlying data sources. To this end, we first retrieve the most relevant table content from the textual database and link it to its corresponding 14065 table schema description S(Dt) via the mapping function f . Based on this, we formulate a subquery 

qt at the t-th iteration. 

Text Retrieval We deploy a retrieval module that operates in two successive stages: vector-based recall followed by semantic reranking. Given an incoming query qt, it is encoded into a shared dense embedding space alongside document chunks. We then select the top-N candidates with the highest cosine similarity to the query embedding: 

ˆT qt 

> recall

= top-N

(

arg max  

> ˆTi∈{ ˆD,T }

cos (v ˆTi , vqt )

)

,

(3) In the subsequent reranking stage, the recalled can-didate chunks are re-evaluated by a more expressive relevance model, yielding the final top-k selections, denoted by ˆT qt

> rerank

.

SQL Programming and Execution To support accurate reasoning over tabular data, we incorpo-rate a "program-and-execute" mechanism that is selectively invoked only when subquery reasoning involves tables. Specifically, we inspect whether any content originates from tabular sources in the retrieved results. For each chunk in the top-ranked set ˆT qt

> rerank

, we apply the mapping function (in Equation 2) to extract its associated schema, yield-ing a table schema set: 

St = {f ( ˆTi) | ˆTi ∈ ˆT qt

> rerank

}. (4) If the set St is empty, this module is passed. Other-wise, we derive an accurate answer with the current subquery qt and the corresponding schema con-text as inputs. To achieve this, we leverage struc-tured query execution over relational data and use SQL as the intermediate formal language. A ded-icated tool fSQL with LLM as backend generates executable SQL programs and applies them to the pre-constructed MySQL database, formalized as follows: 

et = fSQL (St, q t). (5) 

Intermediate Answer Generation For the sub-query qt, TableRAG can benefit from two heteroge-neous information sources: the execution result et

over SQL database and text retrieval result ˆT qt

> rerank

from the document database. Both of the data sources provide partial or complete evidence. They introduce distinct failure modes: SQL execution may produce incorrect results or execution errors, while text retrieval may yield incomplete or mis-leading context. Consequently, the results from these sources may either reinforce each other or present contradictions. To address this, we adopt a compositional reasoning mechanism. The exe-cution result et and the retrieved textual chunks 

ˆT qt 

> rerank

are cross-examined to validate consistency and guide answer selection. The final answer to each subquery is derived by adaptively weighting the reliability of each source based on its evidential utility, at = F(et, ˆT qt

> rerank

).Once the query decomposition module deter-mines that no further subqueries are necessary, TableRAG terminates the iterative reasoning pro-cess, yielding the final answer A = aT , where T

denotes the total number of iterations performed. 

4 Benchmark Construction 

In this section, we present HeteQA, a novel bench-mark for assessing multi-hop reasoning across het-erogeneous documents. 

4.1 Data Collection 

HeteQA necessitates advanced operations, such as arithmetic computation, nested logic, etc. To bal-ance annotation fidelity with scalability, we adopt a human-in-the-loop collaborative strategy that in-tegrates LLMs with human verification. The con-struction pipeline proceeds in three stages: 

Query Generation We curate tabular sources from the Wikipedia dataset (Chen et al., 2020). To facilitate analytical depth, we restrict our se-lection to tables with a minimum of 20 rows and 7 columns, and apply structural deduplication to eliminate redundancy across similar schemas. For each retained table, we define a suite of advanced operations, e.g., conditional filtering, and statistical aggregation. These operations serve as primitives for constructing complex queries. Leveraging the Claude-3.7-sonnet 2, we prompt for query synthesis as compositions over these primitives. Each gener-ated query is paired with executable code in both SQL and Python. We execute the associated code and obtain the answer. A final deduplication pass is applied over both queries and answers, promoting diversity in the dataset. Full implementation details are provided in Appendix A. 

Answer Verification To ensure correctness and reliability, each instance is subjected to manual 

> 2https://www.anthropic.com/claude/sonnet

14066 40.4%  

> 5.9% 13.2%
> 3.7%
> 8.1%
> 11.0%
> 11.8%
> 5.9%
> Domain
> Sports
> Transportation
> Culture / Literature
> Military
> Geography
> Entertainment
> Society
> Technology 26.2%
> 18.8%
> 26.6%
> 19.2%
> 9.2%
> Domain
> Filtering
> Grouping
> Aggregation
> Calculation
> Sorting

Figure 3: Domain distribution and tabular operation distribution of HeteQA. 

inspection by human annotators. Their task is to verify that the execution outcome is accurate for the corresponding query. In cases where discrepancies are found, they are responsible for correcting both the underlying code and the resulting answer. 

Document Reference To support queries that in-tegrate both tabular and textual information, we augment the instance by leveraging the associated Wikipedia document. Specifically, certain entities within the query are replaced with reference-based formulations by the human annotators. For exam-ple, the query "Which driver . . . " can be rephrased as "What is the nationality of the driver . . . ". This entity substitution can either modify the subject of the question and its corresponding answer or alter the query phrasing while preserving the original answer. The annotation guidelines and annotator profiles are detailed in Appendix B. 

4.2 Discussion 

Each data instance in HeteQA is composed of a query, its corresponding answer, the executable SQL sentence, and the execution-derived answer. Through our data collection pipeline, we construct 304 high-quality examples whose answers are grounded in both single-source (82%) and multi-source (18%). The resulting benchmark spans 136 distinct tables and 5314 wiki knowledge entities. To characterize the dataset, we analyze its semantic domains and the types of tabular reasoning opera-tions. As illustrated in Figure 3, HeteQA covers 9 semantically diverse domains and encompasses 5 principal categories of tabular operations. Together, HeteQA constitutes a structurally diverse and se-mantically broad resource for advancing question answering over heterogeneous documents. 

5 Experiments 

5.1 Experimental Settings 5.1.1 Datasets. 

We assess the performance of TableRAG on our curated HeteQA, as well as multiple established benchmarks spanning two settings: 

HybridQA (Chen et al., 2020) A multi-hop QA dataset involving both tabular and textual informa-tion. For our evaluation, we only retain data cases with tables containing more than 100 cells. 

WikiTableQuestion (Pasupat and Liang, 2015b) A TableQA dataset spanning diverse domains. The queries necessitate a range of data manipulation operations, including comparison, aggregation, etc. 

5.1.2 Implementation Details 

In the text retrieval process, we employ the BGE-M3 series models (Chen et al., 2024a,b). During recall, we retain the top 30 candidates, from which the top 3 are subsequently selected via reranking. To manage large inputs, the text is chunked into segments of 1000 tokens, with a 200-token overlap between consecutive chunks. The iterative loop is bounded by a maximum of 5 iterations. For back-bone LLMs, we utilize Claude-3.5-Sonnet as a rep-resentative closed-source LLM, while Deepseek-V3, Deepseek-R1 (Guo et al., 2025), and Qwen-2.5-72B (Yang et al., 2024) serve as the open-source counterparts. A consistent backend is maintained for all modules in the online iterative reasoning process. We use accuracy as the evaluation metric, assessed by Qwen-2.5-72B, which yields a binary score of 0 or 1. The prompt is provided in Ap-pendix G, and the results evaluated using the exact match metric are presented in Appendix D. 

5.1.3 Baselines 

We evaluate the performance of TableRAG by benchmarking it against three distinct baseline methodologies: (1) Direct answer generation with LLMs. (2) NaiveRAG, which processes tabular data as linearized Markdown formatted texts and subsequently applies a standard RAG pipeline. (3) ReAct (Yao et al., 2023), a prompt based paradigm to synergize reasoning and acting in LLMs with external knowledge sources. (4) TableGPT2 (Su et al., 2024) employs a Python-based execution module to generate code (e.g., Pandas ) for answer derivation within a simulated environment. The detailed implementation of these baseline methods 14067 Method Backbone HybridQA WikiTQ HeteQA 

- - Single-Source Multi-Source Overall 

Direct Claude-3.5 9.84 6.21 10.68 8.65 10.00 DeepSeek-R1 24.42 12.20 3.40 13.46 6.77 DeepSeek-V3 14.75 10.39 6.80 28.85 14.19 Qwen-2.5-72b 11.47 7.37 4.85 12.50 7.42 NaiveRAG Claude-3.5 20.28 82.60 33.20 40.35 34.54 DeepSeek-V3 26.56 75.40 33.60 45.61 35.85 Qwen-2.5-72b 22.62 66.33 23.07 36.84 25.66 ReAct Claude-3.5 43.38 69.81 26.40 44.44 29.60 DeepSeek-V3 38.36 63.40 21.14 47.39 26.07 Qwen-2.5-72b 37.38 53.80 16.94 35.71 20.47 TableGPT2 9.51 63.40 35.60 16.67 32.24 TableRAG Claude-3.5 47.87 84.62 44.94 40.74 44.19 DeepSeek-V3 47.87 80.40 43.32 51.85 44.85 

Qwen-2.5-72b 48.52 78.00 37.65 43.96 38.82 

Table 1: Performance of TableRAG compared to baseline models across multiple benchmarks, evaluated using LLM-as-Judge accuracy. "Multi-Source" indicates questions requiring both tabular and textual information, while “Single-Source” refers to questions relying on only one source type. 

is provided in Appendix C and additional baseline comparisons are presented in Appendix D. 

5.2 Main Result 

The main results across different LLMs backbones are presented in Table 1. Several key observations emerge: (1) The ReAct framework demonstrates advantages over naive RAG on multi-source data, but exhibits degraded performance on single-source data that requires tabular reasoning. This can be attributed to context insensitivity during multi-turn reasoning. Queries that could be resolved with sin-gle SQL execution are instead decomposed into multiple subqueries. This over-fragmentation may introduce errors or incomplete information during execution (especially when operations such as filter-ing, aggregation are involved), potentially leading to cascading failures. (2) TableGPT2 yields accept-able results solely on single-source queries, such as WikiTQ, underscoring its limited capacity for handling multi-source queries. This reflects a lack of generalizability in heterogeneous information environments. (3) TableRAG surpasses all base-lines, achieving at least a 10% improvement over the strongest alternative. Notably, it performs ro-bustly across both single-source and multi-source data. This performance gain is attributed to the in-1.4 1.6 1.8 2.0 2.2     

> 5
> 10
> 15
> 20
> 25
> 30
> 35
> 40
> 45
> 50
> LLM eval score
> Ablation Study of TableRAG on HybridQA
> TableRAG
> w/o Context aware Decomposition
> w/o SQL Execution
> w/o Document Retrieval 1.4 1.6 1.8 2.0 2.2
> 5
> 10
> 15
> 20
> 25
> 30
> 35
> 40
> 45
> 50
> LLM eval score
> Ablation Study of TableRAG on HeteQA
> TableRAG
> w/o Context aware Decomposition
> w/o SQL Execution
> w/o Document Retrieval

Figure 4: Ablation study on HybridQA and HeteQA benchmarks based on DeepSeek-V3 backbone. 

corporation of symbolic reasoning, which enables effective adaptation to heterogeneous documents. Moreover, the consistency in performance across different LLM backbones underscores TableRAG’s architectural generality and compatibility with a broad range of backbones. 

5.3 Ablation Study 

To elucidate the relative importance of each compo-nent within the TableRAG framework, we evaluate the full architecture against three ablated variants: (1) w/o Context-Sensitive Query Decomposition, where query decomposition is performed without conditioning on retrieved table schema. (2) w/o SQL Execution, which replaces the SQL program-ming and execution module with the markdown 14068 Method WikiTQ HeteQA Total Latency Avg. Latency / Step Total Latency Avg. Latency / Step 

TableRAG 13.50 5.92 24.57 7.70 ReAct 17.70 7.93 45.65 10.79 

Table 2: Latency evaluation, measured in seconds. 0 20 40 60 80 100     

> Percentage
> TableRAG
> ReACT
> TableGPT2
> Execution Iterations Comparison on HeteQA
> less than 3 steps 3 steps 4 steps 5 steps more than 5 steps

Figure 5: Comparison of the execution iterations on HeteQA between TableRAG, ReAct and TableGPT2. 

table format. (3) w/o Textual Retrieval, which operates solely through table-based SQL execu-tion, without leveraging textual resources such as Wikipedia documents. The results are summarized in Figure 4. All the modules contribute to the over-all performance of TableRAG, though their relative impact varies across benchmarks. On HybridQA, document retrieval proves particularly critical, due to its emphasis on the extraction of entity-centric or numerical cues. Conversely, for HeteQA, SQL execution proves more influential, as the queries involve nested operations that benefit from SQL-based symbolic reasoning. These findings highlight the complementary design of TableRAG’s textual retrieval and program-executed reasoning compo-nents. 

6 Efficiency 

6.1 Execution Dynamics 

We evaluate the efficiency of TableRAG by exam-ining the distribution of its execution iterations, as illustrated in Figure 5. Execution lengths are grouped into four categories: fewer than 3 steps, 3–5 steps, exactly 5 steps, and more than 5 steps. Among the evaluated methods, TableGPT2 demon-strates the highest average number of execution steps, with a modal value centered around five. In contrast, TableRAG consistently requires fewer steps, resolving approximately 63.55% of instances in fewer than five steps and an additional 30.00% precisely within five, with only a marginal propor-tion of cases remaining unsolved under the given iteration constraints. While ReAct exhibits a com-parable distribution in execution steps, its overall performance remains markedly inferior to that of TableRAG. These results suggest that TableRAG achieves both superior efficiency in execution and outstanding reasoning accuracy. It is attributed to the incorporation of SQL-based tabular reasoning. 

6.2 Latency 

We assess the latency performance using Qwen-72B-Instruct as a consistent backbone model. As shown in Table 2, TableRAG incurs lower latency compared to ReAct, in both average time per step and total time efficiency. This is mainly due to: (1) TableRAG executes fewer iterations, and employs symbolic SQL execution, which is computationally efficient. (2) ReAct performs reasoning at every step, and consumes more steps before reaching a final decision, thereby incurring greater time over-head. 

7 Analysis 

We provide a comprehensive analysis of TableRAG in this section, with additional results presented in Appendix E. 

7.1 Error Analysis 

In addition to evaluating the overall performance of TableRAG against established baselines, we per-formed a detailed error analysis to characterize the nature of prediction failures. Broadly, the incorrect outputs fall into two primary categories: (1) reason-ing failures, attributable to errors in SQL execution or flawed intermediate query decomposition, and (2) task incompletion, typically manifesting as re-fusals to answer or termination upon exceeding the maximum iteration limit. The prediction distribu-tion is shown in Figure 6. Notably, TableGPT2 ex-hibits the highest frequency of such failures, largely due to its limited capacity to integrate contextual cues from the wiki documents. This constraint frequently results in the model either explicitly re-14069 0 50 100 150 200 250 300   

> Percentage (%)
> TableRAG (DeepSeek-V3)
> TableRAG (Qwen-72b)
> ReAct (DeepSeek-V3)
> ReAct (Qwen-72b)
> TableGPT2
> Error Distribution
> Correct Reasoning Error Refusal or Exceeding Max Iteration

Figure 6: Error analysis of TableRAG, TableGPT2 and ReAct with DeepSeek-V3 and Qwen-2.5-72b as back-bones on HeteQA. 

fusing to respond or acknowledging its inability to do so. In contrast, ReAct, which lacks mecha-nisms for context-aware query decomposition and code execution simulation, often engages in un-necessarily elaborate reasoning steps for problems that could be addressed via a single structured in-quiry. TableRAG demonstrates the lowest failure rate among the methodologies assessed. Its con-sistent ability to yield valid responses within five iterations highlights the efficacy of its design — particularly its use of context-aware query decom-position and selective SQL-based execution plan-ning. 

7.2 Prediction across Domains 

Figure 7 presents a comparative evaluation of TableRAG, instantiated with various backbone LLMs, against the ReAct framework across var-ious domains. The results reveal that TableRAG consistently outperforms ReAct in the majority of domains, demonstrating its effectiveness in het-erogeneous document question answering. Only certain domains, such as Culture, exhibit compar-atively weaker performance on TableRAG with Qwen backbone. A closer inspection of the data distribution suggests that this degradation may stem from the sparsity of domain-specific instances. 

8 Related Work 

8.1 Retrieval Augmented Generation 

Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has emerged as a robust paradigm for mitigating hallu-cination (Zhang et al., 2023a) and enhancing the reliability of Large Language Models (LLMs) gen-erated responses (Lewis et al., 2020; Guu et al., 2020). The RAG approaches retrieve from the Sports 

> Transportation
> Culture / Literature
> Military
> Geography
> Entertainment
> Society
> Technology
> 10
> 20
> 30
> 40
> 50
> 60
> 70
> TableRAG DeepSeek-V3
> ReAct DeepSeek V3
> TableRAG Qwen
> ReAct Qwen

Figure 7: Performance distribution of TableRAG and ReAct across different domains. 

knowledge base, and the most relevant document chunks are subsequently incorporated into the gen-eration process (Gao et al., 2023; Zhu et al., 2024; Borgeaud et al., 2022). However, this straightfor-ward retrieval process often yields noisy chunks that may lack critical details, thereby diminishing the quality of the subsequent generation. Recent advancements have thus focused on task-adaptive retrieval mechanisms. Notable frameworks in this regard include Self-RAG (Asai et al., 2023), RQ-RAG (Chan et al., 2024), etc. Despite these inno-vations, RAG still faces challenges when dealing with heterogeneous contexts (Satpute et al., 2024). 

8.2 Table Reasoning via Large Language Models 

Table reasoning refers to the development of a sys-tem that provides responses to user queries based on tabular data (Lu et al., 2025). The mainstream approaches to table reasoning can be broadly clas-sified into two categories. The first category re-volves around leveraging LLMs through prompt engineering. For instance, Tab-CoT (Jin and Lu, 2023) applies chain-of-thought (CoT) reasoning to establish a tabular structured reasoning process. Similarly, Chain-of-Table (Wang et al., 2024) ex-tends the CoT methodology to the tabular setting, enabling a multi-step reasoning process for more complex table-based queries. The second category involves utilizing programs to process tabular data. Tabsqlify (Nahid and Rafiei, 2024) employs a text-to-SQL approach to decompose tables into smaller, contextually relevant sub-tables. DATER (Ye et al., 2023a) adopts a few-shot prompting strategy to reduce large tables into more manageable sub-tables, using a parsing-execution-filling technique that generates intermediate SQL queries. BINDER (Cheng et al., 2022; Zhang et al., 2023b) integrates 14070 both Python and SQL code to derive answers from tables. InfiAgent-DABench (Hu et al., 2024) uti-lizes an LLM-based agent that plans, writes code, interacts with a Python sandbox, and synthesizes results to solve table-based questions. 

9 Conclusion 

We address the limitations of existing RAG ap-proaches in handling heterogeneous documents that combine textual and tabular data. Current ap-proaches compromise the structural integrity of ta-bles, resulting in information loss and degraded per-formance in global, multi-hop reasoning tasks. To overcome these issues, we introduce TableRAG, an SQL-driven framework that integrates textual un-derstanding with precise tabular manipulation. To rigorously assess the capabilities of our approach, we also present a new benchmark HeteQA. Ex-perimental evaluations across public datasets and HeteQA reveal that TableRAG significantly outper-forms existing baseline approaches. 

Limitations 

While TableRAG demonstrates strong performance, several limitations merit consideration: 1. The ef-fectiveness of TableRAG is closely tied to the capa-bilities of the underlying LLMs. Our implementa-tion leverages high-capacity models such as Claude, DeepSeek-v3, and Qwen-72B-Instruct, which pos-sess strong generalization abilities. Smaller models that lack specialized instruction tuning may ex-hibit a marked degradation in performance. This suggests that achieving competitive results may ne-cessitate substantial computational resources. 2. The HeteQA benchmark is restricted to English. This limitation arises from the difficulty in curating high-quality heterogeneous sources across multiple languages. As a result, cross-lingual generalization remains unexplored. In future work, we aim to extend HeteQA to a multilingual setting, thereby broadening the applicability and robustness of our evaluation framework. 

References 

Nikhil Abhyankar, Vivek Gupta, Dan Roth, and Chan-dan K Reddy. 2024. H-star: Llm-driven hybrid sql-text adaptive reasoning on tables. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.05952 .Akari Asai, Zeqiu Wu, Yizhong Wang, Avirup Sil, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2023. Self-rag: Learning to retrieve, generate, and critique through self-reflection. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.11511 .Sebastian Borgeaud, Arthur Mensch, Jordan Hoff-mann, Trevor Cai, Eliza Rutherford, Katie Milli-can, George Bm Van Den Driessche, Jean-Baptiste Lespiau, Bogdan Damoc, Aidan Clark, et al. 2022. Improving language models by retrieving from tril-lions of tokens. In International conference on ma-chine learning , pages 2206–2240. PMLR. Chi-Min Chan, Chunpu Xu, Ruibin Yuan, Hongyin Luo, Wei Xue, Yike Guo, and Jie Fu. 2024. Rq-rag: Learn-ing to refine queries for retrieval augmented genera-tion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.00610 .Jianlv Chen, Shitao Xiao, Peitian Zhang, Kun Luo, Defu Lian, and Zheng Liu. 2024a. Bge m3-embedding: Multi-lingual, multi-functionality, multi-granularity text embeddings through self-knowledge distillation. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.03216 .Jianlv Chen, Shitao Xiao, Peitian Zhang, Kun Luo, Defu Lian, and Zheng Liu. 2024b. Bge m3-embedding: Multi-lingual, multi-functionality, multi-granularity text embeddings through self-knowledge distillation. 

Preprint , arXiv:2402.03216. Wenhu Chen, Hanwen Zha, Zhiyu Chen, Wenhan Xiong, Hong Wang, and William Yang Wang. 2020. Hy-bridQA: A dataset of multi-hop question answering over tabular and textual data. In Findings of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2020 ,pages 1026–1036, Online. Association for Computa-tional Linguistics. Zhoujun Cheng, Tianbao Xie, Peng Shi, Chengzu Li, Rahul Nadkarni, Yushi Hu, Caiming Xiong, Dragomir Radev, Mari Ostendorf, Luke Zettlemoyer, et al. 2022. Binding language models in symbolic languages. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.02875 .Darren Edge, Ha Trinh, Newman Cheng, Joshua Bradley, Alex Chao, Apurva Mody, Steven Truitt, Dasha Metropolitansky, Robert Osazuwa Ness, and Jonathan Larson. 2024. From local to global: A graph rag approach to query-focused summarization. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.16130 .Paulo Finardi, Leonardo Avila, Rodrigo Castaldoni, Pe-dro Gengo, Celio Larcher, Marcos Piau, Pablo Costa, and Vinicius Caridá. 2024. The chronicles of rag: The retriever, the chunk and the generator. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.07883 .Yunfan Gao, Yun Xiong, Xinyu Gao, Kangxiang Jia, Jinliu Pan, Yuxi Bi, Yi Dai, Jiawei Sun, and Haofen Wang. 2023. Retrieval-augmented generation for large language models: A survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.10997 .Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Haowei Zhang, Junxiao Song, Ruoyu Zhang, Runxin Xu, Qihao Zhu, Shirong Ma, Peiyi Wang, Xiao Bi, et al. 2025. Deepseek-r1: In-centivizing reasoning capability in llms via reinforce-ment learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.12948 .14071 Kelvin Guu, Kenton Lee, Zora Tung, Panupong Pasu-pat, and Mingwei Chang. 2020. Retrieval augmented language model pre-training. In International confer-ence on machine learning , pages 3929–3938. PMLR. Xueyu Hu, Ziyu Zhao, Shuang Wei, Ziwei Chai, Qianli Ma, Guoyin Wang, Xuwu Wang, Jing Su, Jingjing Xu, Ming Zhu, et al. 2024. Infiagent-dabench: Eval-uating agents on data analysis tasks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.05507 .Ziqi Jin and Wei Lu. 2023. Tab-cot: Zero-shot tabular chain of thought. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.17812 .Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Hein-rich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rock-täschel, et al. 2020. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. Advances in Neu-ral Information Processing Systems , 33:9459–9474. Weizheng Lu, Jing Zhang, Ju Fan, Zihao Fu, Yueguo Chen, and Xiaoyong Du. 2025. Large language model for table processing: A survey. Frontiers of Computer Science , 19(2):192350. Md Mahadi Hasan Nahid and Davood Rafiei. 2024. Tabsqlify: Enhancing reasoning capabilities of llms through table decomposition. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.10150 .Panupong Pasupat and Percy Liang. 2015a. Compo-sitional semantic parsing on semi-structured tables. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:1508.00305 .Panupong Pasupat and Percy Liang. 2015b. Compo-sitional semantic parsing on semi-structured tables. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:1508.00305 .Ankit Satpute, Noah Gießing, André Greiner-Petter, Moritz Schubotz, Olaf Teschke, Akiko Aizawa, and Bela Gipp. 2024. Can llms master math? investigat-ing large language models on math stack exchange. In Proceedings of the 47th international ACM SIGIR conference on research and development in informa-tion retrieval , pages 2316–2320. Hesam Shahrokhi, Amirali Kaboli, Mahdi Ghorbani, and Amir Shaikhha. 2024. Pytond: Efficient python data science on the shoulders of databases. In 2024 IEEE 40th International Conference on Data Engi-neering (ICDE) , pages 423–435. IEEE. Aofeng Su, Aowen Wang, Chao Ye, Chen Zhou, Ga Zhang, Gang Chen, Guangcheng Zhu, Haobo Wang, Haokai Xu, Hao Chen, et al. 2024. Tablegpt2: A large multimodal model with tabular data integra-tion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.02059 .Yuan Sui, Jiaru Zou, Mengyu Zhou, Xinyi He, Lun Du, Shi Han, and Dongmei Zhang. 2023. Tap4llm: Table provider on sampling, augmenting, and packing semi-structured data for large language model reasoning. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.09039 .Zilong Wang, Hao Zhang, Chun-Liang Li, Julian Mar-tin Eisenschlos, Vincent Perot, Zifeng Wang, Lesly Miculicich, Yasuhisa Fujii, Jingbo Shang, Chen-Yu Lee, et al. 2024. Chain-of-table: Evolving tables in the reasoning chain for table understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.04398 .An Yang, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chengyuan Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei Huang, Haoran Wei, et al. 2024. Qwen2. 5 tech-nical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.15115 .Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao. 2023. React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. In International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) .Yunhu Ye, Binyuan Hui, Min Yang, Binhua Li, Fei Huang, and Yongbin Li. 2023a. Large language models are versatile decomposers: Decompose evi-dence and questions for table-based reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2301.13808 .Yunhu Ye, Binyuan Hui, Min Yang, Binhua Li, Fei Huang, and Yongbin Li. 2023b. Large language models are versatile decomposers: Decomposing ev-idence and questions for table-based reasoning. In 

Proceedings of the 46th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Infor-mation Retrieval , SIGIR ’23, page 174–184, New York, NY, USA. Association for Computing Machin-ery. Yue Zhang, Yafu Li, Leyang Cui, Deng Cai, Lemao Liu, Tingchen Fu, Xinting Huang, Enbo Zhao, Yu Zhang, Yulong Chen, et al. 2023a. Siren’s song in the ai ocean: a survey on hallucination in large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.01219 .Yunjia Zhang, Jordan Henkel, Avrilia Floratou, Joyce Cahoon, Shaleen Deep, and Jignesh M Patel. 2023b. Reactable: Enhancing react for table question answer-ing. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.00815 .Fengbin Zhu, Wenqiang Lei, Youcheng Huang, Chao Wang, Shuo Zhang, Jiancheng Lv, Fuli Feng, and Tat-Seng Chua. 2021. Tat-qa: A question answering benchmark on a hybrid of tabular and textual content in finance. arXiv preprint arXiv:2105.07624 .Yinghao Zhu, Changyu Ren, Shiyun Xie, Shukai Liu, Hangyuan Ji, Zixiang Wang, Tao Sun, Long He, Zhoujun Li, Xi Zhu, et al. 2024. Realm: Rag-driven enhancement of multimodal electronic health records analysis via large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.07016 .

A HeteQA 

A.1 Table Collection 

To enable complex reasoning over tabular struc-tures, we curate a subset of extensive tables from the Wikipedia-based corpus. Specifically, we retain 14072 table List_of_Australian_films_of_2012_0 

query Who wrote and starred the comedy film released in the second half of 2012 (July-December) that had the highest number of cast members in the List of Australian films of 2012? 

sql_query Which comedy film released in the second half of 2012 (July-December) had the highest number of cast members in the List of Australian films of 2012? 

sql                              

> SELECT
> title , LENGTH ( cast_subject_of_documentary ) -LENGTH ( REPLACE ( cast_subject_of_documentary , ’,’, ’’ ))+1AS cast_count
> FROM
> ‘ list_of_australian_films_of_2012_0_sheet1 ‘
> WHERE
> genre LIKE ’% Comedy % ’
> AND (release_date LIKE ’% July % ’
> OR release_date LIKE ’% August % ’
> OR release_date LIKE ’% September % ’
> OR release_date LIKE ’% October % ’
> OR release_date LIKE ’% November % ’
> OR release_date LIKE ’\ ufffdcember % ’ )
> ORDER BY
> cast_count DESC LIMIT
> 1;

sql_ans Kath & Kimderella 

answer Riley, Turner, and Magda Szubanski 

Table 3: An example of HeteQA. 14073 Figure 8: The dataset construction pipeline of HeteQA. 

only tables containing more than 20 rows and at least 7 columns. This filtering process reduced the initial collection from 15,314 tables to 1,345 candi-dates that meet the criteria for structural richness. To further enhance query diversity and reduce re-dundancy in the dataset, we apply a deduplication step based on schema similarity. In cases where multiple tables share identical column structures — for example, the entries for 1947 BAA draft and 

1949 BAA draft — only a single representative instance is preserved. This procedure yielded a final dataset comprising 155 unique tables. 

A.2 Data Collection 

As illustrated in Figure 8, each data instance is con-structed through a three-stage pipeline, facilitated via the Claude 3.7 Sonnet API 3.To construct the dataset, we prompt the LLM to generate SQL or pandas code associated with queries conditioned on a provided table schema. The generated code is then executed against the table to obtain the corresponding answer. Instances that fail to produce an executable result are dis-carded. To promote diversity within the dataset and avoid redundancy, we eliminate any instances exhibiting duplicate queries or identical answers. This filtering is performed using regular expres-sions to detect lexical or semantic repetition. Ad-ditionally, we discard cases where the execution result is ambiguous, such as queries seeking the top-ranked entity when multiple candidates are tied. Following automated filtering, all remaining in-stances undergo a manual verification process. Two human annotators independently assess each query, the corresponding code, and the resulting answer. In cases of inconsistency or error, annotators revise the SQL or Python code and correct the associated answer to ensure accuracy and coherence. 

B Guidelines for HeteQA Annotations 

B.1 Annotator Profiles 

The two annotators are volunteers whose native lan-guage is Chinese and who possess fluent English 

> 3https://www.anthropic.com/claude/sonnet

proficiency. Both annotators are professional soft-ware engineers with substantial experience in SQL and Python programming. 

B.2 Guidelines for Answer Verification Objective 

Your task is to verify whether the provided answer correctly and completely addresses the natural language query, based on the associated code and table. You will also identify and handle ambiguous or non-unique cases. 

Annotation Steps 

1. Verify the Answer Read the natural language query and examine the accompanying Excel table, SQL statements, and Python (pandas) code. Verify whether the output aligns with the semantics of the original query and the underlying data. To this end, you are permit-ted to execute multiple operations on the provided Excel files. 2. Correction Tasks (if necessary) If the answer is incorrect, modify both the code and the answer so that they correctly fulfill the query. Ensure the modified code is minimal, clean, and logically sound. 3. Ambiguity and Tie Cases In instances where the query yields no unique reso-lution - whether due to tied outcomes, under spec-ified conditions, or semantic ambiguity in the for-mulation - you can employ principled strategies to ensure meaningful processing: - Option A: Modify the query to resolve the ambi-guity (e.g., make clarification). - Option B: If the ambiguity is irreparable or the an-swer depends on arbitrary choices, discard the case. 

Additional Guidelines 

Maintain consistency between the query, code, and answer. Ensure your corrections do not introduce new ambiguities or assumptions not grounded in the table or query. 

B.3 Guidelines for Document Reference Objective 

Your task is to add an additional reasoning hop to the original query using the provided Wikipedia entities and content. This will help transform the original query into a more complex, multi-hop question that requires deeper reasoning. 

Input Data 14074 Each data case consists of: • Original Query • Answer • A set of Wikipedia entities relevant to the query or the answer • Corresponding Wikipedia content for each entity 

Task Overview 

For each data case, check if the original answer is mentioned in the provided Wiki entities: - If not mentioned or ambiguous (e.g., "Jordan" for both basketball star and sports brand), do not change the query and answer. Just mark the case as “No modification needed”. - If the answer entity exists in the Wikipedia content, perform the following steps: 1. Identify key factual descriptions about the answer entity from its Wiki content. 2. Add a reasoning hop to the original query that leads to the answer via this key fact. 3. Generate two candidate (Query, Answer) pairs by rewriting the query to incorporate this extra reasoning step and updating the answer accordingly. 

Example 

Original Query: Which album takes first place on the Billboard leaderboard in 2013? Original Answer: ArtPop Wiki Entity: ArtPop (album) A key description: It was released on November 6, 2013, by Streamline and Interscope Records. Modified Query Candidates: Who released the album that takes the first place on the Billboard leaderboard in 2013? → Answer: Streamline and Interscope Records 

C Implementation Details 

This section provides a detailed account of the im-plementation procedures for the baseline method-ologies and TableRAG to ensure a fair and repro-ducible evaluation. 

C.1 ReAct 

For the ReAct framework, we preprocess tabular data by converting it into markdown-formatted plain text. To ensure consistency in experimen-tal conditions, we adopt the same chunking and retrieval configurations as those employed in our TableRAG model. We build upon the publicly available ReAct implementation 4. The framework addresses user queries through an iterative rea-soning loop consisting of Thought , Action , and 

Observation steps, culminating in a final answer via the Finish operation. The max iteration is set to 5, the same as TableRAG. 

C.2 TableGPT2 

We evaluate TableGPT2 using its officially released TableGPT Agent implementation 5. As specified in its API documentation, we provide both the doc-ument content and the tabular data as inputs to the HumanMessage class, ensuring adherence to the intended usage of the model:                                     

> 1from typing import TypedDict
> 2from langchain_core . messages import HumanMessage
> 34class Attachment ( TypedDict ):
> 5""" Contains at least one dictionary with the key filename . """
> 6filename : str
> 78attachment_msg =HumanMessage (
> 9content ="" ,
> 10 #Please make sure your iPython kernel can access your filename .
> 11 additional_kwargs ={ " attachments ": [Attachment ( filename =" titanic . csv ") ]} ,
> 12 )

C.3 TableRAG 

In this section, we provide additional details about the offline stage in TableRAG. To mitigate the po-tential effects of errors during this stage, we apply various engineering techniques to minimize prepro-cessing mistakes: - Missing Value Imputation: we systematically as-sign default missing column names or missing elements to preserve table integrity. - Column Type Mapping: we perform data type inference for each column based on type consis-tency across its values. - Representative Sample Selection: during schema extraction, we carefully control the length of se-lected samples while promoting value diversity. TableRAG is designed to degrade gracefully in the presence of offline errors (most commonly hap-pens in the tabular processing phase). TableRAG 

> 4https://github.com/ysymyth/ReAct
> 5https://github.com/tablegpt/tablegpt-agent

14075 Method Backbone HybridQA WikiTQ HeteQA 

ReAct Claude-3.5 41.4 72.6 19.4 DeepSeek-V3 35.4 58.4 15.5 Qwen-2.5-72b 29.5 52.6 12.5 TableGPT2 11.8 66.8 15.1 TableRAG Claude-3.5 42.6 86.4 27.8 DeepSeek-V3 33.1 79.8 21.7 Qwen-2.5-72b 44.6 76.0 25.5 

Table 4: Performance of TableRAG compared to baseline models across multiple benchmarks, measured by exact match. 

Method WikiTQ HybridQA 

ReAct 53.80 37.38 TableRAG 78.00 48.52 TAP4LLM - 23.28 H-Star 67.35 -

Table 5: Supplementary baseline comparison with Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct as backend. 

bypasses the SQL execution pathway and leverages the text retrieval module to extract and reason over markdown-formatted table content. 

D Experiments 

D.1 Exact Match Results 

We present the experimental results with exact match as evaluation metrics in Table 4. 

D.2 Supplementary Baseline Comparison 

We further compare TableRAG with additional baseline methods that target specific domain sce-narios: - TAP4LLM 6 (Sui et al., 2023): a comprehensive pre-processing toolkit designed to enhance in Tabular reasoning with LLMs. It employs three main strategies: table sampling, table augmenta-tion and table packing. - H-Star 7 (Abhyankar et al., 2024): a hybrid ap-proach that operates in two stages: Table Ex-traction, which identifies and isolates relevant table sections based on the query, and Adaptive Reasoning, which dynamically selects between 

> 6

https://github.com/Y-Sui/archive_code 

> 7

https://github.com/nikhilsab/H-STAR 0 50 100 150 200 250 300   

> Percentage (%)
> TableRAG (DeepSeek-V3)
> TableRAG (Qwen-72b)
> ReAct (DeepSeek-V3)
> ReAct (Qwen-72b)
> TableGPT2
> Prediction Distribution
> Correct Reasoning Error Refusal or Exceeding Max Iteration

Figure 9: Prediction distribution of TableRAG, TableGPT2 and ReAct on HybridQA. 

symbolic and semantic reasoning strategies de-pending on the question type. The results are summarized in Table 5. As shown, TAP4LLM performs worse than both TableRAG and ReAct, our primary baseline, indicating that agentic frameworks are generally more effective than pipeline-style approaches. In the TableQA scenario, TableRAG also surpasses H-Star. Over-all, TableRAG consistently delivers strong perfor-mance, further supporting our claims. 

E Analysis 

We present a series of auxiliary analyses conducted on both our proposed benchmark, H ETE QA, and the publicly available H YBRID QA dataset. These analyses offer further insight into the behavior and limitations of TableRAG beyond the primary eval-uation metrics. 

E.1 Analysis on HybridQA 

We extend our investigation to the H YBRID QA dataset by examining the performance distribution on data domains and conducting a detailed error 14076 Sports 

> Transportation
> Culture / Literature
> Military
> Geography
> Entertainment
> Society
> Technology
> 30
> 40
> 50
> TableRAG DeepSeek-V3
> ReAct DeepSeek V3
> TableRAG Qwen
> ReAct Qwen

Figure 10: Model performance of different domains on HybridQA. 1 3 5

> Top-k
> 35
> 40
> 45
> 50
> Accuracy (%)
> Top-k vs HybridQA and HeteQA
> HybridQA
> HeteQA

Figure 11: Hyperparameter top-k analysis of TableRAG on HeteQA. 

analysis, using D EEP SEEK -V3 as the backbone model. The results, summarized in Figures 10 and 9, reveal patterns consistent with those ob-served on H ETE QA. This parallel further validates the generality of our observations across HeteQA settings. 

E.2 HyperParameter Analysis 

To elucidate the influence of the top-k retrieval parameter on the performance of TableRAG, we undertook a systematic sensitivity analysis. While our main experimental setup fixed k = 3 , we ex-panded our investigation on the HeteQA dataset, utilizing DeepSeek-V3 as the retrieval backbone, and varied k across the set 1, 3, 5. The resulting performance metrics are illustrated in Figure 11. Our observations reveal distinct behaviors across benchmarks with respect to the choice of k. No-tably, HybridQA exhibits superior performance at higher k values. This effect is plausibly at-tributable to the lack of deduplication within its tables, whereby overlapping or similar information from multiple tables or Wikipedia documents con-tributes constructively during retrieval. In aggre-gate, setting k = 3 strikes an effective balance, yielding robust performance across both bench-marks while maintaining computational efficiency. This efficiency gain arises from the direct relation-ship between the top-k retrieval size and the subse-quent LLM context length, underscoring the practi-cal importance of this hyperparameter in optimiz-ing the trade-off between accuracy and resource consumption. 

F Check List 

Harmful information And Privacy We propose a new RAG solution to address multi-hop problems related to heterogeneous data, without involving any harmful information or privacy. In addition, we provide a heterogeneous benchmark containing tables and texts sourced from Wikipedia. All of the data is publicly available, contains no personal information, and involves no harmful content. 

License and Intend We provide the license we used here: - Claude 3.5 Sonnet ( https://www.anthropic. com/legal/aup )- Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct ( https://huggingface. co/Qwen/Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct/blob/ main/LICENSE )- DeepSeek-V3 (https://huggingface.co/ deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-V3/blob/main/ LICENSE-MODEL )- TableGPT Agent (Apache License 2.0) and TableGPT2-7B (https://huggingface. co/tablegpt/TableGPT2-7B/blob/main/ LICENSE )Our use of these existing artifacts was consistent with their intended use. 

Documentation of the artifacts We propose a novel Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) framework that integrates traditional document re-trieval with structured data querying via SQL, aim-ing to enhance performance in table-related ques-tion answering tasks. The framework comprises two fundamental stages: offline database construc-tion and online interactive reasoning. Compared to conventional document-centric RAG approaches, our architecture offers additional reliable SQL exe-cution results—when table fragments are involved in the retrieval process. This supplementary source mitigates the limitations of generative models in handling structured tabular data. To facilitate a more comprehensive evaluation of our framework, we further construct a heteroge-neous benchmark named HeteQA. This benchmark 14077 aims to evaluate the capability to handle multi-hop reasoning tasks across heterogeneous documents. The benchmark instances are initially generated by LLMs, and then rigorously validated by experi-enced programmers and database administrators to ensure correctness and realism. 

G Prompts 

The prompts for TableRAG are presented in this section. .14078 Prompt Template for SQL generation 

# Multi-Hop Table Reasoning Query Generator ## Task Generate a genuine multi-hop reasoning query based on the provided markdown table, along with SQL and pandas solutions in a structured JSON format. ## Input A markdown formatted table schema. ## Output Requirements Provide exactly ONE multi-hop reasoning query that: - Requires sequential analytical operations where each step depends on the previous result - Cannot be broken down into separate independent questions - Is solvable using both SQL and pandas - Is relevant to the data domain in the table - Mention the table name in query to indicate the source table file ## Operations to Consider in Your Sequential Reasoning Chain - Group or Aggregate - Filtering subsets - Calculating percentages or ratios between groups - Comparing specific subgroups - Rank or order - Finding extremes (max/min) of aggregated values - Computing difference or sum - Finding correlations ## Example Operations Combinations - Filter → Group → Rank in groups - Group → Sum → Compare - Filter → Calculate percentage → Rank - Group → Aggregate → Filter on aggregate ## Guidance for True Multi-Hop Queries A proper multi-hop query requires sequential operations where each step builds on the result of the previous step. For example: GOOD (True multi-hop): "What was the average lap time among the top 5 ranked drivers in the team which had the best average lap time?" - This requires first finding the team with best average lap time - Then identifying the top 5 drivers in that specific team - Finally calculating the average lap time of just those drivers BAD (Separable questions): "Which team had the best average lap time, and what was that average among the top 5 ranked drivers?" - This could be answered as two separate questions Format your response as a single JSON object with this structure: {"query": "Clear natural language question requiring true multi-hop reasoning", "operations_used": ["List operations used, such as: filtering, aggregation, grouping, sorting, etc."], "sql_solution": "Complete executable SQL query that solves the question", "pandas_solution": "Complete executable pandas code that solves the question", "result_type: "The type of the result, must be either number or entity." }Ensure your query truly requires chained reasoning where later steps must use results from earlier steps and generates one answer. 

.14079 Prompt Template for Query Decomposition                                              

> 1tools =[{
> 2" type ": " function " ,
> 3" function ": {
> 4" name ": " solve_subquery " ,
> 5" description ": " Return answer for the decomposed subquery " ,
> 6" parameters ": {
> 7" type ": " object " ,
> 8" properties ": {
> 9" subquery ": {
> 10 " type ": " string " ,
> 11 " description ": " The subquery to be solved "
> 12 }
> 13 },
> 14 " required ": [
> 15 " subquery "
> 16 ],
> 17 " additionalProperties ": False
> 18 },
> 19 " strict ": True
> 20 }
> 21 }]

Next, You will complete a table-related question answering task. Based on the provided materials such as the table content (in Markdown format), you need to analyze the Question. And try to decide whether the Question should be broken down into subquerys. After you have collected sufficient information, you need to generate comprehensive answers. You have a "solve_subquery" tool that can execute SQL-like operations on the table data. It accepts natural language questions as input. Instructions: 1. Carefully analyze the user query through step-by-step reasoning. 2. If the query requires multiple pieces of information, more than the given table content: - Decompose the query into subqueries - Process one subquery at a time - Use "solve_subquery" tool to retrieve answers for each subquery 3. If a query can be answered by table content, do not decompose it. And directly put the origin query into the "solve_subquery" tool. The "solve_subquery" tool can solve complex subquery on table via one tool call. 4. Generate exactly ONE subquery at a time. 5. Write out all terms completely - avoid using abbreviations. 6. When you have sufficient information, provide the final answer in this format: <Answer>: [your complete response] Table Content: {table_content} Question: {query} Please start! 

??? 14080 Prompt Template for Intermediate Answer Reasoning 

You are about to complete a table-based question answering task using the following two types of reference materials: # Content 1: Original content (table content is provided in Markdown format) {docs} # Content 2: NL2SQL related information and SQL execution results in the database # the user given table schema {schema} # SQL generated based on the schema and the user question: {nl2sql_model_response} # SQL execution results {sql_execute_result} Please answer the user’s question based on the materials above. User question: {query} Note: 1. The markdown table content in Content 1 may be not complete. 2. You should cross-validate the given two materials: - if the answers are same, you may directly output the answer. - If the SQL shows error, such as "SQL execution results", try to answer solely based on Content 1. - If the two material shows conflict, carefully evaluate both sources, explain the discrepancy, and provide your best assessment. 

.14081 Prompt Template for Answer Evaluation 

We would like to request your feedback on the performance of the AI assistant in response to the user question displayed above according to the gold answer. Please use the following listed aspects and their descriptions as evaluation criteria: - Accuracy and Hallucinations: The assistant’s answer is semantically consistent with the gold answer; The numerical value and order need to be accurate, and there should be no hallucinations. - Completeness: Referring to the reference answers, the assistant’s answer should contain all the key points needed to answer the user’s question; further elaboration on these key points can be omitted. Please rate whether this answer is suitable for the question. Please note that the gold answer can be considered as a correct answer to the question. The assistant receives an overall score on a scale of 0 OR 1, where 0 means wrong and 1 means correct. Dirctly output a line indicating the score of the Assistant. PLEASE OUTPUT WITH THE FOLLOWING FORMAT, WHERE THE SCORE IS 0 OR 1 BY STRICTLY FOLLOWING THIS FORMAT: "[[score]]", FOR EXAMPLE "Rating: [[1]]": <start output> Rating: [[score]] <end output> [Question] question [Gold Answer] golden [The Start of Assistant’s Predicted Answer] {gen} 14082