Title: 2025.emnlp-main.464.pdf

URL Source: https://aclanthology.org/2025.emnlp-main.464.pdf

Published Time: Sat, 03 Jan 2026 16:57:40 GMT

Number of Pages: 22

Markdown Content:
Proceedings of the 2025 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 9113–9134 November 4-9, 2025 ©2025 Association for Computational Linguistics ViDoRAG: Visual Document Retrieval-Augmented Generation via Dynamic Iterative Reasoning Agents 

Qiuchen Wang 1, Ruixue Ding, Zehui Chen 1, Weiqi Wu 2, Shihang Wang, Pengjun Xie, Feng Zhao 1*

1MoE Key Laboratory of Brain-inspired Intelligent Perception and Cognition, University of Science and Technology of China 

2Shanghai Jiao Tong University 

Abstract 

Understanding information from visually rich documents remains a significant challenge for traditional Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) methods. Existing benchmarks predom-inantly focus on image-based question answer-ing (QA), overlooking the fundamental chal-lenges of efficient retrieval, comprehension, and reasoning within dense visual documents. To bridge this gap, we introduce ViDoSeek , a novel dataset designed to evaluate RAG per-formance on visually rich documents requiring complex reasoning. Based on it, we identify key limitations in current RAG approaches: (i) purely visual retrieval methods struggle to ef-fectively integrate both textual and visual fea-tures, and (ii) previous approaches often al-locate insufficient reasoning tokens, limiting their effectiveness. To address these challenges, we propose ViDoRAG , a novel multi-agent RAG framework tailored for complex reason-ing across visual documents. ViDoRAG em-ploys a Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM)-based hybrid strategy to effectively handle multi-modal retrieval. To further elicit the model’s reasoning capabilities, we introduce an iterative agent workflow incorporating exploration, sum-marization, and reflection, providing a frame-work for investigating test-time scaling in RAG domains. Extensive experiments on ViDoSeek validate the effectiveness and generalization of our approach. Notably, ViDoRAG outperforms existing methods by over 10% on the competi-tive benchmark. The code is available at https: //github.com/Alibaba-NLP/ViDoRAG .

1 Introduction 

Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) enhances Large Models (LMs) by enabling them to use ex-ternal knowledge to solve problems. As the expres-sion of information becomes increasingly diverse, we often work with visually rich documents that contain diagrams, charts, tables, etc. These visual 

> *

Corresponding author What is the peak value of the data?       

> …
> ViDoSeek (Ours): Q&A with the Large Corpus Traditional VQA Dataset
> Answer: 529
> What is the profit difference between the highest and
> lowest selling products in Apple's 2024 quarterly reports?
> ViDoRAG (Ours)
> Answer Agent
> Seeker Agent
> Inspector Agent
> Multi -modal
> Retrieval
> VLMs, LLMs, DocLMs …
> Unique Answer:
> $24.7Billion
> Retrieval -Augmented Generation System …
> (a) Comparison between our ViDoSeek and the traditional VQA datasets.
> (b) Comparison between our ViDoRAG and the traditional RAG approach.
> Traditional RAG
> Vector Retrieval
> Top -K
> Generation
> Limited by retrieval precision,
> reasoning capability, etc. A novel multi -agent,
> coarse -to -fine RAG
> framework with
> dynamic retrieval and
> task -specific agents.
> Answer: 32 °C
> . . .

Figure 1: Comparison of our work with the existing datasets and methods. (a) In traditional datasets, each query must be paired with specific images or documents. In our ViDoSeek, each query can obtain a unique answer within the large corpus. (b) Our ViDoRAG is a multi-agent, coarse-to-fine framework specifically optimized for visually rich documents. 

elements make information easier to understand and are widely used in education, finance, law, and other fields. Therefore, researching RAG within visually rich documents is highly valuable. In practical applications, RAG systems often need to retrieve information from a large collection consisting of hundreds of documents, amounting to thousands of pages. As shown in Figure 1, existing Visual Question Answering (VQA) benchmarks aren’t designed for such large corpus. The queries in these benchmarks are typically paired with one single image (Methani et al., 2020; Masry et al., 2022; Li et al., 2024; Mathew et al., 2022) or docu-ment(Ma et al., 2024), which is used for evaluating Q&A tasks but not suitable for evaluating RAG systems. The answers to queries in these datasets may not be unique within the whole corpus. To address this gap, we introduce ViDoSeek, a novel dataset designed for visually rich document retrieval-reason-answer. In ViDoSeek, each query has a unique answer and specific reference pages. 

9113 It covers the diverse content types and multi-hop reasoning that most VQA datasets include. This specificity allows us to better evaluate retrieval and generation performance separately. Moreover, to enable models to effectively rea-son over a large corpus, we propose ViDoRAG, a multi-agent, coarse-to-fine retrieval-augmented generation framework tailored for visually rich doc-uments. Our approach is based on two critical ob-servations: (i) Inefficient and Variable Retrieval Performance. Traditional OCR-based retrieval struggles to capture visual information. With the development of vision-based retrieval, it is easy to capture visual information (Faysse et al., 2024; Yu et al., 2024a; Zhai et al., 2023). However, there lack of an effective method to integrate visual and tex-tual features, resulting in poor retrieval of relevant content. (ii) Insufficient Activation of Reason-ing Capabilities during Generation. Previous studies on inference scaling for RAG focus on ex-panding the length of retrieved documents (Jiang et al., 2024; Shao et al., 2025; Xu et al., 2023). However, due to the characteristics of VLMs, only emphasizing on the quantity of knowledge without providing further reasoning guidance presents cer-tain limitations. There is a need for an effective inference scale-up method to efficiently utilize spe-cific action spaces, such as resizing and filtering, to fully activate reasoning capabilities. Building upon these insights, ViDoRAG intro-duces improvements in both retrieval and genera-tion. We propose Multi-Modal Hybrid Retrieval, which combines both visual and textual features and dynamically adjusts results distribution based on Gaussian Mixture Models (GMM) prior. This approach achieves the optimal retrieval distribution for each query, enhancing generation efficiency by reducing unnecessary computations. During gener-ation, our framework comprises three agents: the seeker, inspector, and answer agents. The seeker rapidly scans thumbnails and selects relevant im-ages with feedback from the inspector. The inspec-tor reviews, then provides reflection and offers pre-liminary answers. The answer agent ensures con-sistency and gives the final answer. This framework reduces exposure to irrelevant information and en-sures consistent answers across multiple scales. Our major contributions are as follows: • We introduce ViDoSeek, a benchmark specif-ically designed for visually rich document retrieval-reason-answer, fully suited for evalu-ation of RAG within large document corpus. • We propose ViDoRAG, a novel RAG frame-work that utilizes a multi-agent, actor-critic paradigm for iterative reasoning, enhancing the noise robustness of generation models. • We introduce a GMM-based multi-modal hy-brid retrieval strategy to effectively integrate visual and textual pipelines. • Extensive experiments demonstrate the effec-tiveness of our method. ViDoRAG signifi-cantly outperforms strong baselines, achiev-ing over 10% improvement, thus establishing a new state-of-the-art on ViDoSeek. 

2 Related Work 

Visual Document Q&A Benchmarks. Visual Document Question Answering is focused on an-swering questions based on the visual content of documents (Antol et al., 2015; Ye et al., 2024; Wang et al., 2024). While most existing research (Methani et al., 2020; Masry et al., 2022; Li et al., 2024; Mathew et al., 2022) has primarily con-centrated on question answering from single im-ages, recent advancements have begun to explore multi-page document question answering, driven by the increasing context length of modern mod-els (Mathew et al., 2021; Ma et al., 2024; Tanaka et al., 2023; Fang et al., 2025b). However, prior datasets were not well-suited for RAG tasks in-volving large collections of documents. To fill this gap, we introduce ViDoSeek, the first large-scale document collection QA dataset, where each query corresponds to a unique answer across a collection of ∼ 6k images. 

Retrieval-augmented Generation. With the ad-vancement of large models, RAG has enhanced the ability of models to incorporate external knowl-edge (Lewis et al., 2020; Chen et al., 2024b; Wu et al., 2025; Fang et al., 2025a; Zhang et al., 2024; Wang et al., 2025). In prior research, retrieval often followed the process of extracting text via OCR technology (Chen et al., 2024a; Lee et al., 2024; Robertson et al., 2009). Recently, the growing interest in multimodal embeddings has greatly im-proved image retrieval tasks (Faysse et al., 2024; Yu et al., 2024a). Additionally, there are works that focus on In-Context Learning in RAG (Agarwal et al., 2025; Yue et al., 2024; Team et al., 2024; Weijia et al., 2023). Our work builds upon these 9114 (a) Document Collecting     

> Document
> Database
> Sample
> Document
> Candidate
> (b) Query Creation (c) Quality Review (d) Multimodal Refine
> Initial Query
> Human
> Experts
> Semantic Filter
> By LLM
> Retrieve within
> Document Collection
> Visual Filter
> By VLM
> Fast but rough
> Slow but careful
> Unqualified
> Query
> Refine with
> Golden Image
> Refined
> Query
> Qualified
> Query
> Final
> Output

Figure 2: Data Construction pipeline. (a) We sample and filter documents according to the requirements to obtain candidates. (b) Then experts construct the initial query from different contents. (c) After that, we prompt GPT-4 to directly determine whether the query is a general query. The remaining queries are carefully reviewed with top-K

recall images. (d) Finally, unqualified queries are refined paired with golden image by GPT-4o. 

developments by combining multi-modal hybrid retrieval with a coarse-to-fine multi-agent gener-ation framework, seamlessly integrating various embedding and generation models into a scalable framework. 

3 Problem Formulation 

Given a query as q, and we have a collection of doc-uments C = {D 1, D2, . . . , DM } which contains 

M documents. Each document Dm consists of 

N pages, each image representing an individual page, defined as Dm = {I1, I2, . . . , IN }. The to-tal number of images included in the collection is ∑Mm=1 |D m|. We aim to retrieve the most relevant information efficiently and accurately and generate the final answer a to the query q.

4 ViDoSeek Dataset 

Existing VQA datasets typically consist of queries paired with a single image or a few images. How-ever, in practical application scenarios, users often pose questions based on a large-scale corpus rather than targeting an individual document or image. To better evaluate RAG systems, we prefer questions that have unique answers when retrieving from a large corpus. To address this need, we introduce a novel Vi sually rich Do cument dataset specifically designed for RAG systems, called ViDoSeek. We provide the pipeline for constructing the dataset (§4.1) and a detailed analysis of the dataset (§4.2). 

4.1 Dataset Construction. 

To construct the ViDoSeek dataset, we developed a four-step pipeline to ensure that the queries meet our stringent requirements. As illustrated in Figure 2, our dataset comprises two parts: one annotated from scratch by our AI researchers, and the other derived from refining queries in the existing open-source dataset SlideVQA (Tanaka et al., 2023). For the open-source dataset, we initiate the query re-finement starting from the third step of our pipeline. For the dataset we build from scratch, we follow the entire pipeline beginning with document collection. The following outlines our four-step pipeline: 

Step 1. Document Collecting. As slides are a widely used medium for information transmission today, we selected them as our document source. We began by collecting English-language slides containing 25 to 50 pages, covering 12 domains such as economics, technology, literature, and ge-ography. And we filtered out 300 slides that si-multaneously include text, charts, tables, and two-dimensional layouts which refer to flowcharts, dia-grams, or any visual elements composed of various components and are a distinctive feature of slides. 

Step 2. Query Creation. To make the queries more suitable for RAG over a large-scale collection, our experts were instructed to construct queries that are specific to the document. Additionally, we encouraged constructing queries in various forms and with different sources and reasoning types to better reflect real-world scenarios. 

Step 3. Quality Review. In large-scale retrieval and generation tasks, relying solely on manual an-notation is challenging due to human brain limita-tions. To address this, we propose a review module that automatically identifies problematic queries. 

Step 4. Multimodal Refine. In this final step, we refine the queries that did not meet our stan-dards during the quality review. We use carefully designed VLM-based agents to assist us throughout the entire dataset construction pipeline. 9115 Table 1: Comparison of existing dataset with ViDoSeek.                                         

> DATASET DOMAIN CONTENT TYPE REFERENCE TYPE LARGE DOCUMENT COLLECTION
> PlotQA (Methani et al., 2020) Academic Chart Single-Image ✗
> ChartQA (Masry et al., 2022) Academic Chart Single-Image ✗
> ArxivQA (Li et al., 2024) Academic Chart Single-Image ✗
> InfoVQA (Mathew et al., 2022) Open-Domain Text, Chart, Layout Single-Image ✗
> DocVQA (Mathew et al., 2021) Open-Domain Text, Chart, Table Single-Document ✗
> MMLongDoc (Ma et al., 2024) Open-Domain Text, Chart, Table, Layout Single-Document ✗
> SlideVQA (Tanaka et al., 2023) Open-Domain Text, Chart, Table, Layout Single-Document ✗
> ViDoSeek(Ours) Open-Domain Text, Chart, Table, Layout Multi-Documents ✓

4.2 Dataset Analysis Dataset Statistics. ViDoSeek is the first dataset specifically designed for question-answering over large-scale document collections. It comprises ap-proximately ∼ 1.2k questions across a wide ar-ray of domains, addressing four key content types: Text, Chart, Table, and Layout. Among these, the Layout type poses the greatest challenge and rep-resents the largest portion of the dataset. Addition-ally, the queries are categorized into two reasoning types: single-hop and multi-hop. Further details of the dataset can be found in the Appendix D and E. 

Comparative Analysis. Table 1 highlights the limitations of existing datasets, which are predom-inantly tailored for scenarios involving single im-ages or documents, lacking the capacity to handle the intricacies of retrieving relevant information from large collections. ViDoSeek bridges this gap by offering a dataset that more accurately mirrors real-world scenarios. This facilitates a more robust and scalable evaluation of RAG systems. 

5 Method 

In this section, drawing from insights and founda-tional ideas, we present a comprehensive descrip-tion of our ViDoRAG framework, which integrates two modules: Multi-Modal Hybrid Retrieval (§5.1) and Multi-Scale View Generation (§5.2). 

5.1 Multi-Modal Hybrid Retrieval 

For each query, our approach involves retrieving in-formation through both textual and visual pipelines, dynamically determining the optimal value of top-K using a Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM), and merging the retrieval results from both pipelines. 

Adaptive Recall with Gaussian Mixture Model. 

Traditional methods rely on a static hyperparame-ter, K, to retrieve the top-K images or text chunks from a corpus. A smaller K might fail to capture sufficient references needed for accurate responses, as the most relevant nodes are not always ranked at the top. Conversely, a larger K can slow down inference and introduce inaccuracies due to noise. Additionally, manually tuning K for different sce-narios is troublesome. Our objective is to develop a straightforward yet effective method to automatically determine K for each modality, without the dependency on a fixed value. We utilize the similarity S of the embedding 

E to quantify the relevance between the query and the document collection C:

S(q, C) = {si|cos (Eq, E pi ), p i ∈ C} (1) where si represents the cosine similarity between the query Q and page pi. In the visual pipeline, a page corresponds to an image, whereas in the textual pipeline, it corresponds to chunks of OCR text. We propose that the distribution of S follows a GMM and we consider they are sampled from a bimodal distribution P(s) shown in Figure 3:                

> P(s) = wF· N (s|μF, σ 2
> F) + wT· N (s|μT, σ 2
> T)(2)

where N represents a Gaussian distribution, with 

w, μ, σ 2 indicating the weight, mean, and vari-ance, respectively. The subscripts T and F refer to the distributions of pages with high and low sim-ilarity. The distribution with higher similarity is deemed valuable for generation. The Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm is utilized to esti-mate the prior probability P(T |s, μ T , σ 2 

> T

) for each modality. The dynamic value of K is defined as: 

K = |{ pi ∈ C | pi ∼ N (μT , σ 2 

> T

)}| (3) Considering that the similarity score distribution for different queries within a document collection may not strictly follow a standard distribution, we establish upper and lower bounds to manage out-liers. The EM algorithm is employed sparingly, less than ∼ 1% of the time. Dynamically adjusting 

K enhances generation efficiency compared to a static setting. Detailed analysis is available in §7.2. 9116 Similarity 

> N

!!…

> Multi -modal
> Embedding
> …
> Dynamic Length Nodes
> Fusion

Seeker Agent: Hunting for relevant images 

Answer Agent: Synthesize the final answer   

> Summarize and output draft answer .
> When the information is sufficient to answer:
> Each Round

Reason about what to do next.    

> “I have Known {Knowledge from Image},
> My next step is to {Future Plan}.”
> Reflection: “I need more information about…”
> “I choose {Retained Image} as reference.”
> Retain relevant
> images after
> detailed review
> Reflection on the
> images selected
> by the Seeker
> Reflection

Inspector Agent: Detailed review and reflect        

> When information is insufficient to answer:
> Each Round
> Reason with reflection of inspector.
> Extract the useful global information,
> Retrieve the relevant Image.
> “After reflecting on {Reflection},
> My current thought is {Current Thought}.”
> “Next, information about {Image description} is needed,
> Useful information might be found in {Selected Image}.”
> Feedback for additional information.
> Human Query Retrieval Results

Parser Similarity 

> Measure
> Multi -modal Retrieval
> Initial Step:
> When there is reflection from inspector ：

!!

> "

!!#$

> "

!!

> %

ℱ!  

> Consistency check and return the final answer .

1 2

3

Multi -Modal Hybrid Retrieval 

> “The final answer is {Draft Answer},
> and the reference is {Reference Image}.”

#$ 

> Select the useful images to retain.
> “Based on the {Draft Answer} and {Reference Image},
> my final answer is {Final Answer}.”
> !&'(

Modality -Wise 

GMM Figure 3: Overview of our ViDoRAG. The Multi-Modal Hybrid Retrieval combines visual and textual features and dynamically adjusts the results distribution via GMM. The Multi-Agent Generation involves three agents—Seeker, Inspector, and Answer—which iteratively refine and summarize the answer through coarse-to-fine reasoning. 

Textual and Visual Hybrid Retrieval. In the previous step, nodes were retrieved from both pipelines. In this phase, we integrate them: 

Rhybrid = Sort [F(RT ext , RV isual )] (4) where RT ext and RV isual denote the retrieval re-sults from the textual and visual pipelines, respec-tively. The function F(·) signifies a union opera-tion, and Sort (·) arranges the nodes in their orig-inal sequence, as continuous pages often exhibit correlation (Yu et al., 2024b). The textual and visual retrieval pipelines demon-strate varying levels of performance for different features. Without adaptive recall, the combined retrieval Rhybrid can become excessive. Adaptive recall ensures that effective retrievals are concise, while traditional pipelines yield longer recall re-sults. This strategy optimizes performance relative to context length, underscoring the value of adap-tive recall in hybrid retrieval. 

5.2 Multi-Agent Generation with Iterative Reasoning 

During the generation, we introduce a multi-agent framework which consists of three types of agents: the Seeker Agent, the Inspector Agent, and the Answer Agent. As illustrated in Figure 3, this framework extracts clues, reflects, and answers in a coarse-to-fine manner from a multi-scale perspec-tive. More details are provided in Appendix H. 

Seeker Agent: Hunting for relevant images. 

The Seeker Agent is responsible for selecting from a coarse view and extracting global cues based on the query and reflection from the Inspector Agent. We have made some improvements to ReAct (Yao et al., 2022) to facilitate better memory manage-ment. The action space is defined as the selection of the images. Initially, the agent will reason only based on the query Q and select the most relevant images Is

0 from the candidate images Ic

0, while the initial memory M0 is empty. In step t, the candi-date images Ic

t+1 are the complement of previously selected images Is

t, defined as Ic

t+1 = Ic

t \ Is

t. The seeker has received the reflection Ft−1 from the inspector, which includes an evaluation of the se-lected images and a more detailed description of the requirements for the images. The Seeker in-tegrates feedback Ft−1 from the Inspector, which includes an evaluation of the selected images and a 9117 description of image requirements, to further refine the selection Ist and update the memory Mt+1 :

Ict+1 , Mt+1 = Θ( Ict , Q, Mt, Ft−1) (5) where Mt+1 represents the model’s thought con-tent in step t under the ReAct paradigm, maintain-ing a constant context length. The process contin-ues until the Inspector determines that sufficient information is available to answer the query, or the Seeker concludes that no further relevant images exist among the candidates. 

Inspector Agent: Review in detail and Reflect. 

In baseline scenarios, increasing the top-K value improves recall@ K, but accuracy initially rises and then falls. This is attributed to interference from irrelevant images, referred to as noise, affecting model generation. To address this, we use Inspec-tor to perform a more fine-grained inspection of the images. In each interaction with the Seeker, the In-spector’s action space includes providing feedback or drafting a preliminary answer. At step t, the in-spector reviews images at high resolution, denoted as Θ( Ict ∪ Irt−1, Q) where Irt−1 are images retained from the previous step and Ict are from the Seeker. If the current information is sufficient to answer the query, a draft answer ˆA is provided, alongside a reference to the relevant image: 

ˆA, Iref = Θ( Ict ∪ Irt−1, Q) (6) Conversely, if more information is needed, the In-spector offers feedback Ft to guide the Seeker in better image selection and identifies images Irt to retain for further review in the next step t + 1 :

Ft, Irt = Θ( Ict ∪ Irt−1, Q) (7) The number of images the Inspector reviews is typically fewer than the Seeker’s, ensuring robust-ness in reasoning, particularly for Visual Language Models with moderate reasoning abilities. 

Answer Agent: Synthesize the final answer. 

In our framework, the Seeker and Inspector engage in a continuous interaction, and the answer agent provides the answer in the final step. To balance accuracy and efficiency, the Answer Agent verifies the consistency of the Inspector’s draft answer ˆA.If the reference image matches the Inspector’s in-put, the draft answer is accepted as the final answer 

A = ˆA. If the reference image is a subset of the input image, the answer agent should check for consistency between the draft answer ˆA and the reference image, then give the final answer A: If the reference image is a subset of Inspector’s the input, the Answer Agent ensures consistency be-tween the draft answer ˆA and the reference image before finalizing the answer A:

A = Θ( Iref , Q, ˆA) (8) The Answer Agent utilizes the draft answer as prior knowledge to refine the response from coarse to fine. The consistency check between the Answer Agent and Inspector Agent enhances the depth and comprehensiveness of the final answer. 

6 Experiments 

6.1 Experimental Settings Evaluation Metric For our end-to-end evalua-tion, we employed a model-based assessment us-ing GPT-4o, which involved assigning scores from 1 to 5 by comparing the reference answer with the final answer. Answers receiving scores of 4 or above were considered correct, and we subse-quently calculate accuracy as the evaluation metric. For retrieval evaluation, we use Recall and MRR (Mean Reciprocal Rank) as the metrics. MRR cal-culates the average of the reciprocal ranks of the first correct answer for a set of queries. 

Baselines and Oracle. We selecte Nv-embed-V2 (Lee et al., 2024) and ColQwen2 (Faysse et al., 2024) as the retrievers for the TextRAG and Vi-sualRAG baselines, respectively. Based on their original settings, we choose the top-5 recall results as the generation input, which equals the average length of dynamic recall results. This ensures a fair comparison and highlights the advantages of our method. The Oracle serves as the upper bound per-formance, where the model responds based on the golden page without retrieval or other operations. 

6.2 Main Results 

As shown in Table. 2, we conducted experiments on both closed-source and open-source models: GPT-4o, Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct, Qwen2.5-VL-7B-Instruct (Yang et al., 2024), Llama3.2-Vision-90B-Instruct. Closed-source models generally outper-form open-source models performance. It is worth mentioning that the Qwen2.5-VL has shown excel-lent instruction following and reasoning capabili-ties within our framework. In contrast, we found that the Llama3.2-VL requires 90B parameters to 9118 Table 2: Overall Generation performance. The evaluations were conducted on various advanced closed-source and open-source models. Upper Bound represents direct inference with the golden pages. 

METHOD REASONING TYPE ANSWER TYPE OVERALL 

Single-hop Multi-hop Text Table Chart Layout 

Llama3.2-Vision-90B-Instruct 

Upper Bound 83.1 78.7 88.7 73.1 68.1 85.1 81.1 TextRAG 42.6 45.7 67.6 41.8 25.4 45.9 43.9 VisualRAG 61.8 60.5 82.5 48.5 52.2 63.9 61.2 ViDoRAG (Ours) 73.3 68.5 85.1 65.6 56.1 74.7 71.2 

Qwen2.5-VL-7B-Instruct 

Upper Bound 77.5 78.2 88.4 77.1 69.4 78.8 77.9 TextRAG 59.6 55.7 78.7 53.8 40.7 60.5 57.6 VisualRAG 66.8 64.3 84.9 61.1 52.8 67.5 65.7 ViDoRAG (Ours) 70.4 67.3 81.9 65.2 57.7 71.3 69.1 

GPT-4o (Closed-Sourced Models) 

Upper Bound 88.8 86.3 97.5 85.7 77.1 89.4 87.7 TextRAG 64.3 62.6 78.7 61.0 48.4 66.1 63.5 VisualRAG 75.7 66.1 90.1 62.4 58.5 75.4 72.1 ViDoRAG (Ours) 83.5 74.1 88.5 73.6 76.4 80.4 79.4 

Table 3: Retrieval Performance on ViDoSeek.                             

> Retriever Recall@1 Recall@3 Recall@5 MRR@5
> BM25 55.2 77.4 84.5 66.5 BGE-M3(Chen et al., 2024a) 60.2 79.3 87.6 70.5 NV-Embed-V2(Lee et al., 2024) 64.1 83.5 90.3 74.7 VisRAG-Ret(Yu et al., 2024a) 64.4 84.1 91.2 75.2 ColPali(Faysse et al., 2024) 70.6 87.9 92.8 79.6 ColQwen2(Faysse et al., 2024) 75.4 89.7 95.1 83.3

accomplish the same instructions, which may be related to the model’s pre-training domain. The results suggest that, while API-based models offer strong baseline performance, our method is also effective in enhancing the performance of open-source models, offering promising potential for future applications. To further demonstrate the robustness of the framework, we constructed a pipeline using data to rewrite queries from Slide-VQA, making the queries suitable for scenarios involving large corpora. The experimental results are presented in the analysis. Top -K1 3 5 7 9 

> Recall
> 0.65
> 0.75
> 0.85
> 0.95
> 0.90
> 1.0 0
> 0.80
> 0.70
> NV -Embed -V2
> ColQwen2 w/ GMM
> NV -Embed -V2 w/ GMM
> Hybrid Retrieval (Ours)
> ColQwen2
> Hybrid Retrieval : Avg. K = 8.1
> ColQwen2 /w GMM: Avg. K = 6.9
> NV -Embed -V2 w/GMM: Avg. K = 5.7

Figure 4: Retrieval performance across different retriev-ers and hybrid retrieval, along with ablations on GMM. 

6.3 Retrieval Evaluation 

In Table 3, we report the detailed performance for various retrievers, including OCR-based and visual-based. Due to the uncertainty of dynamical retrieval across queries, we use the average length of results for analysis. Our goal is to incorporate more relevant information within a shorter con-text while minimizing the impact of noise and re-ducing computational cost without losing valuable information. As shown in Figure 4, Dynamic Re-trieval can achieve better recall performance with a smaller context length, while Hybrid Retrieval combines the results of two pipelines achieving state-of-the-art performance. 

7 Analysis 

7.1 Ablations 

Table 4 presents the impact of different retrievers and generation methods on performance. We have decomposed the retrieval into two components, Dy-namic and Hybrid. Naive refers to the method of direct input, which is most commonly used as a baseline. Dynamic indicates using GMM to fit the optimal recall distribution based solely on the visual pipeline. Hybrid refers to merging the vi-sual and the textual retrieval results directly, which leads to suboptimal results due to long contexts. Experiments demonstrate that the effectiveness and scalability of our proposed modules, as well as their combination, can comprehensively enhance end-to-end performance from various perspectives. 9119 Table 4: Ablation study on ViDoSeek benchmark.                     

> RETRIEVAL GENERATION Accuracy Naive Dynamic Hybrid Naive Multi-Agent
> ✓✓72.1
> ✓✓72.8
> ✓✓74.1
> ✓✓✓74.3
> ✓✓77.3
> ✓✓✓79.4

7.2 Time Efficiency How does dynamic retrieval balance latency and accuracy? In traditional RAG systems, using a small Top-K value may result in missing critical information, whereas employing a larger value can introduce noise and increase computational over-head. ViDoRAG dynamically determines the num-ber of documents to retrieve based on the similarity distribution between the query and the corpus. This approach ensures that only the most relevant docu-ments are retrieved, thereby reducing unnecessary computations from overly long contexts and ac-celerating the generation process. As shown in Table 5, we compare retrieval with and without GMM based on the Naive method. The experi-ments indicate that GMM may reduce recall due to distribution bias. However, because it significantly shortens the generation context, it effectively im-proves performance in end-to-end evaluations. 

Table 5: Evaluation of Dynamic Retrieval Methods. 

Method Accuracy ↑ Avg. Pages ↓

w/o GMM 72.1 10 w/ GMM 72.8 6.76 

Latency Analysis of the Multi-Agent Generation. 

There is an increase in delay due to the iterative na-ture of the multi-agent system, as shown in Figure 5. Each agent performs specific tasks in a sequential manner, which adds a small overhead compared to traditional straightforward RAG. However, despite the increase in latency, the overall performance improves due to the higher quality of generated answers, making the trade-off between latency and accuracy highly beneficial for complex RAG tasks. Baseline 

> Seeker
> Inspector
> Answer
> Avg. Query Latency
> Traditional RAG
> ViDoRAG

Figure 5: Latency Analysis on Generation. 

7.3 Modalities and Strategies of Generation 

As shown in Figure 6, the vision-based pipeline outperforms the text-based pipeline across all types, even for queries related to text content. Generally speaking, due to models’ inherent characteristics, the reasoning ability of LLMs is stronger than that of VLMs. However, the lack of visual information makes it difficult for models to identify the intrinsic connections between pieces of information. This also poses a challenge for the generation of content based on visually rich documents. While obtaining visual information, VidoRAG further enhances the reasoning capabilities of VLMs, striking a balance between accuracy and computational load. Non -      

> Span
> Singl e-
> Span Multi -
> Span
> Single -
> Hop
> Single -
> Hop
> Text
> Table
> Char tLayout
> (a) Performance on ViDoSeek (b) Performance on SlideVQA -Refined
> TextRAG
> VisualRAG
> ViDoRAG (Ours)
> Multi -
> Hop Multi -
> Hop

Figure 6: Performance across different types of queries on our ViDoSeek and the refined SlideVQA datasets. 

7.4 Performance with Test-time Scaling 

Figure 7 illustrates the number of interaction rounds between the seeker and the inspector within ViDoRAG based on different models. Due to the limited instruction capabilities of some models, we sampled 200 queries for the experiment. Models with stronger performance require fewer reasoning iterations, while weaker models often need addi-tional time to process and reach a conclusion. Con-ditioning the model on a few demonstrations of the task at inference time has been proven to be a computationally efficient approach to enhance model performance (Brown et al., 2020; Min et al., 2021). The results indicate that predefining tasks and breaking down complex tasks into simpler ones is an effective method for scaling inference. 80  

> 70
> 60
> Accuracy
> Avg. Reasoning Iterations 23
> GPT -4o
> Qwen2.5 -VL -72B
> Qwen2.5 -VL -7B
> Llama3.2 -Vision -11B
> Llama3.2 -Vision -90B

Figure 7: Scaling behavior with ViDoRAG. 9120 8 Conclusion 

In this work, we introduced ViDoRAG, a novel multi-agent RAG framework tailored for visually rich documents. By proposing a coarse-to-fine rea-soning process and a multi-modal retrieval strategy, ViDoRAG significantly outperforms existing meth-ods, achieving new SOTA on the ViDoSeek bench-mark. Future work will focus on further optimizing the framework’s efficiency while maintaining high accuracy, and exploring its potential in diverse real-world applications, such as education and finance, where visually rich document RAG is crucial. 

Limitations 

In addition to the advanced improvements men-tioned above, our work has several limitations: 

(1) Potential Bias in Query Construction. The queries in ViDoSeek were constructed by human experts, which may introduce bias in the types of questions and the way they are phrased. This could affect the model’s ability to handle more diverse and natural language queries from real-world users. 

(2) Computational Overhead of ViDoRAG. The multi-agent framework, while effective in enhanc-ing reasoning capabilities, introduces additional computational overhead due to the iterative inter-actions between the seeker, inspector, and answer agents. This may limit the scalability of the frame-work in scenarios with strict latency requirements. 

(3) Model Hallucinations. Despite the improve-ments in retrieval and reasoning, the models used in ViDoRAG can still generate hallucinated answers that are not grounded in the retrieved information. This issue can lead to incorrect or misleading re-sponses, especially when the model is overconfi-dent in its generated content. In summary, while ViDoRAG demonstrates sig-nificant improvements in visually rich document re-trieval and reasoning, there are still areas for further enhancement, particularly in terms of generaliza-tion to diverse document types, reducing potential biases in query construction, optimizing the com-putational efficiency of the multi-agent framework, and addressing the issue of model hallucinations. Future work will focus on addressing these limita-tions to further improve the robustness and applica-bility of the model. 

Ethical Considerations 

Our data does not contain any private or sensitive in-formation, and all content is derived from publicly available sources. Additionally, the construction and refinement of the dataset were conducted in a manner that respects copyright and intellectual property rights. 

Acknowledgments 

This work was supported by the Anhui Provin-cial Natural Science Foundation under Grant 2108085UD12. We acknowledge the support of GPU cluster built by MCC Lab of Information Sci-ence and Technology Institution, USTC. The AI-driven experiments, simulations and model training were performed on the robotic AI-Scientist plat-form of Chinese Academy of Sciences. 

References       

> Rishabh Agarwal, Avi Singh, Lei Zhang, Bernd Bohnet, Luis Rosias, Stephanie Chan, Biao Zhang, Ankesh Anand, Zaheer Abbas, Azade Nova, et al. 2025. Many-shot in-context learning. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 37:76930– 76966. Stanislaw Antol, Aishwarya Agrawal, Jiasen Lu, Mar-garet Mitchell, Dhruv Batra, C Lawrence Zitnick, and Devi Parikh. 2015. Vqa: Visual question answering. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision , pages 2425–2433. Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, et al. 2020. Language models are few-shot learners. In Advances in Neural Information Process-ing Systems , 33:1877–1901. Jianlv Chen, Shitao Xiao, Peitian Zhang, Kun Luo, Defu Lian, and Zheng Liu. 2024a. Bge m3-embedding: Multi-lingual, multi-functionality, multi-granularity text embeddings through self-knowledge distillation.
> arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.03216 .Zehui Chen, Kuikun Liu, Qiuchen Wang, Jiangning Liu, Wenwei Zhang, Kai Chen, and Feng Zhao. 2024b. Mindsearch: Mimicking human minds elicits deep ai searcher. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.20183 .Yixiong Fang, Tianran Sun, Yuling Shi, and Xiaodong Gu. 2025a. Attentionrag: Attention-guided context pruning in retrieval-augmented generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.10720 .Yixiong Fang, Tianran Sun, Yuling Shi, Min Wang, and Xiaodong Gu. 2025b. Lastingbench: Defend bench-marks against knowledge leakage. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.21614 .Manuel Faysse, Hugues Sibille, Tony Wu, Bilel Om-rani, Gautier Viaud, Céline Hudelot, and Pierre

9121 Colombo. 2024. Colpali: Efficient document re-trieval with vision language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.01449 .Ziyan Jiang, Xueguang Ma, and Wenhu Chen. 2024. Longrag: Enhancing retrieval-augmented gener-ation with long-context llms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.15319 .Chankyu Lee, Rajarshi Roy, Mengyao Xu, Jonathan Raiman, Mohammad Shoeybi, Bryan Catanzaro, and Wei Ping. 2024. Nv-embed: Improved techniques for training llms as generalist embedding models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.17428 .Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Hein-rich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rock-täschel, et al. 2020. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 33:9459– 9474. Lei Li, Yuqi Wang, Runxin Xu, Peiyi Wang, Xiachong Feng, Lingpeng Kong, and Qi Liu. 2024. Multimodal arxiv: A dataset for improving scientific comprehen-sion of large vision-language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.00231 .Yanjun Ma, Dianhai Yu, Tian Wu, and Haifeng Wang. 2019. Paddlepaddle: An open-source deep learning platform from industrial practice. Frontiers of Data and Domputing , 1(1):105–115. Yubo Ma, Yuhang Zang, Liangyu Chen, Meiqi Chen, Yizhu Jiao, Xinze Li, Xinyuan Lu, Ziyu Liu, Yan Ma, Xiaoyi Dong, Pan Zhang, Liangming Pan, Yu-Gang Jiang, Jiaqi Wang, Yixin Cao, and Aixin Sun. 2024. Mmlongbench-doc: Benchmarking long-context doc-ument understanding with visualizations. Preprint ,arXiv:2407.01523. Ahmed Masry, Do Xuan Long, Jia Qing Tan, Shafiq Joty, and Enamul Hoque. 2022. Chartqa: A benchmark for question answering about charts with visual and logical reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.10244 .Minesh Mathew, Viraj Bagal, Rubèn Tito, Dimosthe-nis Karatzas, Ernest Valveny, and CV Jawahar. 2022. Infographicvqa. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vi-sion , pages 1697–1706. Minesh Mathew, Dimosthenis Karatzas, and CV Jawa-har. 2021. Docvqa: A dataset for vqa on docu-ment images. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Win-ter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision ,pages 2200–2209. Nitesh Methani, Pritha Ganguly, Mitesh M Khapra, and Pratyush Kumar. 2020. Plotqa: Reasoning over sci-entific plots. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Win-ter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision ,pages 1527–1536. Sewon Min, Mike Lewis, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Han-naneh Hajishirzi. 2021. Metaicl: Learning to learn in context. arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.15943 .Stephen Robertson, Hugo Zaragoza, et al. 2009. The probabilistic relevance framework: Bm25 and be-yond. Foundations and Trends® in Information Re-trieval , 3(4):333–389. Rulin Shao, Jacqueline He, Akari Asai, Weijia Shi, Tim Dettmers, Sewon Min, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Pang Wei W Koh. 2025. Scaling retrieval-based language models with a trillion-token datastore. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 37:91260– 91299. Ryota Tanaka, Kyosuke Nishida, Kosuke Nishida, Taku Hasegawa, Itsumi Saito, and Kuniko Saito. 2023. Slidevqa: A dataset for document visual question answering on multiple images. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence , vol-ume 37, pages 13636–13645. Gemini Team, Petko Georgiev, Ving Ian Lei, Ryan Burnell, Libin Bai, Anmol Gulati, Garrett Tanzer, Damien Vincent, Zhufeng Pan, Shibo Wang, et al. 2024. Gemini 1.5: Unlocking multimodal under-standing across millions of tokens of context. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.05530 .Minzheng Wang, Longze Chen, Fu Cheng, Shengyi Liao, Xinghua Zhang, Bingli Wu, Haiyang Yu, Nan Xu, Lei Zhang, Run Luo, et al. 2024. Leave no document behind: Benchmarking long-context llms with extended multi-doc qa. In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 5627–5646. Qiuchen Wang, Ruixue Ding, Yu Zeng, Zehui Chen, Lin Chen, Shihang Wang, Pengjun Xie, Fei Huang, and Feng Zhao. 2025. Vrag-rl: Empower vision-perception-based rag for visually rich information understanding via iterative reasoning with reinforce-ment learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.22019 .Shi Weijia, Min Sewon, Yasunaga Michihiro, Seo Min-joon, James Rich, Lewis Mike, and Yih Wen-tau. 2023. Replug: Retrieval-augmented black-box lan-guage models. ArXiv: 2301.12652 .Jialong Wu, Wenbiao Yin, Yong Jiang, Zhenglin Wang, Zekun Xi, Runnan Fang, Deyu Zhou, Pengjun Xie, and Fei Huang. 2025. Webwalker: Bench-marking llms in web traversal. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.07572 .Peng Xu, Wei Ping, Xianchao Wu, Lawrence McAfee, Chen Zhu, Zihan Liu, Sandeep Subramanian, Evelina Bakhturina, Mohammad Shoeybi, and Bryan Catan-zaro. 2023. Retrieval meets long context large lan-guage models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.03025 .An Yang, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chengyuan Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei Huang, Haoran Wei, et al. 2024. Qwen2. 5 tech-nical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.15115 .9122 Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao. 2022. React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.03629 .Jiabo Ye, Haiyang Xu, Haowei Liu, Anwen Hu, Ming Yan, Qi Qian, Ji Zhang, Fei Huang, and Jingren Zhou. 2024. mplug-owl3: Towards long image-sequence understanding in multi-modal large language models. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.04840 .Shi Yu, Chaoyue Tang, Bokai Xu, Junbo Cui, Junhao Ran, Yukun Yan, Zhenghao Liu, Shuo Wang, Xu Han, Zhiyuan Liu, et al. 2024a. Visrag: Vision-based retrieval-augmented generation on multi-modality documents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.10594 .Tan Yu, Anbang Xu, and Rama Akkiraju. 2024b. In defense of rag in the era of long-context language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.01666 .Zhenrui Yue, Honglei Zhuang, Aijun Bai, Kai Hui, Rolf Jagerman, Hansi Zeng, Zhen Qin, Dong Wang, Xuan-hui Wang, and Michael Bendersky. 2024. Inference scaling for long-context retrieval augmented genera-tion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.04343 .Xiaohua Zhai, Basil Mustafa, Alexander Kolesnikov, and Lucas Beyer. 2023. Sigmoid loss for language image pre-training. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision , pages 11975–11986. Huan Zhang, Yu Song, Ziyu Hou, Santiago Miret, and Bang Liu. 2024. Honeycomb: A flexible llm-based agent system for materials science. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.00135 .9123 Appendix A Case Study 

As shown in Figure 9, the example demonstrates the use of our ViDoRAG to address questions re-lated to various visually rich content. After two rounds of reasoning, the seeker agent and inspec-tor agent successfully locate the reference image from the candidate images provided by the hybrid retriever. Then, the answer agent reviews and sum-marizes the inspector’s draft answer, providing the final response. This multi-hop query shows the robustness and effectiveness of our method. 

B More Analysis on Model-based Evaluation 

In order to more accurately evaluate the perfor-mance of the framework, we chose the model-based evaluation and carefully designed evaluation crite-ria and prompts. Here is additional experiment and detailed analysis on model-based evaluation. 

Evaluation Based on Different Models. We con-ducted multiple evaluations using different LLMs on the same set of generated results. The experi-mental results are shown in Table 6. From the ex-perimental results, it can be seen that model-based evaluation exhibits a slight bias in scoring, but it does not affect the final assessment. The model scores based on its 5-score scale standard, and then we calculate accuracy by setting a threshold 4. The results show that the calculated accuracy is more robust than direct scoring. Using accuracy as the evaluation result is convincing. The table above also shows evaluation results using different mod-els. The results indicate that more advanced models are better aligned with the scoring criteria. Typi-cally, when conducting model-based evaluations, we select models with superior performance. 

Table 6: Results based on different evaluators.                                     

> MODELS METRIC SCORE ACCURACY
> 12345(score ≥4)
> GPT-4o Mean 2.4 9.7 8.7 21.7 57.4 79.1 Std. 0.13 0.10 0.31 0.99 0.66 0.33 GPT-4 Mean 2.2 10.2 10.2 22.5 54.8 77.3 Std. 0.33 0.35 0.15 0.53 0.44 0.10

Evaluation eesults on different methods. As shown in Table 7, we use different models sepa-rately for model-based evaluation to assess whether different models have the ability to distinguish be-tween various methods. The model-based evaluator can effectively distinguish the performance of dif-ferent RAG pipelines, and its results can serve as a reference. For the models with stronger perfor-mance, different evaluators can assess the same RAG method strictly according to the scoring rules, and there is almost no bias in the model. 

Table 7: Consistency assessment among different evaluators.                   

> METHOD EVALUATOR ACCURACY STD .
> TextRAG GPT-4o 63.4 0.31 Qwen-Max 63.3 0.22 VisualRAG GPT-4o 72.1 0.34 Qwen-Max 71.9 0.28 ViDoRAG GPT-4o 79.1 0.33 Qwen-Max 79.2 0.32

Evaluation experiments with various metrics. 

As shown in Table 8, we use different metrics to evaluate the experimental results, including EM, F1 and ANLS. The results show the performance of different frameworks evaluated using different met-rics. Both model-based evaluation and other indica-tors demonstrate that our framework has achieved state-of-the-art performance. Among these, we con-sider ANLS to be the best evaluation metric apart from Model-Based Evaluation Accuracy. EM and F1 are more suitable for assessing mathematical answers and short answers, while for long answers, due to the bias in generated answers, using Model-Based Evaluation is a better choice. 

Table 8: Results on Different Metrics.                 

> METHOD EM F1 ANLS MODEL -B ASED
> TextRAG 5.1 17.9 20.5 63.5 VisualRAG 10.1 24.5 31.1 72.1 ViDoRAG 32.2 46.6 57.8 79.4

Comparison between automated evaluation and human evaluation. As shown in Figure 9, we sample a batch of queries from different types to conduct repeated experiments in order to compare the differences between human evaluation and au-tomated evaluation. For this evaluation, we used the same criteria to conduct the experiment, and the results are as follows. We have found that human evaluations can be highly unstable, depending on factors such as mood, thoughts, and even levels of fatigue. The Table 10 summarizes the differences be-tween human evaluation and automated evaluation. Automated evaluation is more convenient than hu-man evaluation when strict rules are established: 9124 Table 9: Evaluation Performance Metrics.       

> Method Mean Accuracy Standard Deviation
> Human Evaluation 72.1 4.33 Automated Evaluation 74.1 0.14

Table 10: Comparison between Human and Auto-mated Evaluation. 

DIMENSION HUMAN EVALUA -

> TION

AUTOMATED EVAL -

> UATION

Speed and Cost Slower and more costly Faster and more cost-effective. Consistency May vary between different evaluators or even the same evalua-tor at different times due to fatigue or sub-jective judgment. Highly consistent across multiple evaluations, when the model and prompts remain unchanged. Bias May be prone to hu-man biases. More objective once the evaluation criteria are defined. 

Overall, with strict standards and scoring strategies in place, automated evaluation can completely re-place human evaluation and even perform better than human. 

C Additional Experiments Details 

Backbones. To thoroughly validate the effective-ness of ViDoRAG, we conducted experiments on various models across various baselines, includ-ing both closed-source and open-source models: GPT-4o, Qwen2.5-7B, Llama3.2-3B, Qwen2.5-VL-7B-Instruct, Llama3.2-Vision-90B. For OCR-based pipelines, we use PPOCR (Ma et al., 2019) to rec-ognize text within documents. Optionally, VLMs can also be employed for text recognition, as their OCR capabilities are quite strong. 

Experimental Environments. We conducted our experiments on a server equipped with 8 A100 GPUs and 96 CPU cores. Open-source models require substantial computational resources. 

Retrieval Implementation Details. Due to the context length limitations of the model, we use the Top-2K pages to fit the GMM and we restrict the output chunks of the GMM algorithm to be between K/ 2 and K, we set K = 10 in practice. 

D More Details on Datasets 

D.1 Annotation Case 

As shown in Figure 8, this is an example from our dataset. In addition to the query and the golden 

Annotated Data Format               

> 1## JSON Format
> 2{
> 3"uid": "04d8bb0db929110f204723c56e5386c1d8d21587_2",
> 4"query": "What is the temperature of Steam explosion of Pretreatment for Switchgrass and Sugarcane bagasse preparation?",
> 5"reference_answer": "195-205 Centigrade",
> 6"meta_info": {
> 7"file_name": "04d8bb0db929110f204723c586c1d8d21587.pdf ",
> 8"reference_page": [
> 910
> 10 ], # may contain multiple pages
> 11 "source_type": "2d_layout",
> 12 "query_type": "Multi-Hop"
> 13 }
> 14 }

Figure 8: Annotation case in ViDoSeek. 

answer, it also includes the document and page source of the question. 

D.2 Details on ViDoSeek More Dataset Statistics. The statistical about ViDoSeek is presented in Table 12. We categorize queries from a logical reasoning perspective into single-hop and multi-hop. Text, Table, Chart and Layout represent different sources of reference. 

Dataset Difficulty. ViDoSeek sets itself apart with its heightened difficulty level, attributed to the multi-document context and the intricate nature of its content types, particularly the Layout category. The dataset contains both single-hop and multi-hop queries, presenting a diverse set of challenges. Consequently, ViDoSeek serves as a more com-prehensive and demanding benchmark for RAG systems compared to previous works. 

Table 11: Statistics of ViDoSeek. 

STATISTIC NUMBER 

Total Questions 1142 Single-Hop 645 Multi-Hop 497 Pure Text 80 Chart 157 Table 175 Layout 730 

D.3 Details on SlideVQA-Refined Dataset Statistics. We supplemented our experi-ments with the SlideVQA dataset to demonstrate the scalability of our method. SlideVQA catego-rizes queries from a logical reasoning perspective 9125 into single-hop and multi-hop. Non-span, single-span, and multi-span respectively refer to answers derived from a single information-dense sentence, reference information that is sparse but located on the same page, and reference information dis-tributed across different pages. The statistical in-formation about dataset is presented in Table 12.         

> Table 12: Statistics of SlideVQA-Refined.
> STATISTIC NUMBER
> Total Questions 2020 Single-Hop 1486 Multi-Hop 534 Non-Span 358 Single-Spin 1347 Multi-Span 315

Dataset Difficulty. The SlideVQA dataset fo-cuses on evaluating the RAG’s ability to understand both visually sparse and visually dense information. When multi-hop questions involve reference infor-mation spread across different pages, it presents a significant challenge to the RAG system, further demonstrating the effectiveness of our approach. 

E Data Construction Details 

To construct the ViDoSeek dataset, we developed a four-step pipeline to ensure that the queries meet our requirements. 

Step 1. Document Collecting. We collected English-language slides containing 25 to 50 pages, covering 12 domains such as economics, technol-ogy, literature, geography, etc. 

Step 2. Query Creation. To make the queries more suitable for RAG over a large-scale collec-tion, our experts constructed queries based on the following requirements: (i) Each query must have a unique answer when paired with the document. (ii) The query must include unique keywords that point to the specific document and pages. (iii) The query should require external knowledge. Addi-tionally, we encouraged constructing queries in various forms and with different sources and rea-soning types to better reflect real-world scenarios. Our queries not only focus on types of references, including text, tables, charts, and layouts, but also provide a classification of reasoning types, includ-ing single-hop and multi-hop. 

Step 3. Quality Review. To effectively evaluate the generation and retrieval quality of our RAG sys-tem, we require queries that yield unique answers, preferably located on a specific page or within a few pages. However, in large-scale retrieval and generation tasks, relying solely on manual annota-tion is challenging due to human cognitive limita-tions. To address this, we propose a review module that automatically identifies problematic queries. This module consists of two steps: (i) We prompt LLMs to filter out queries that may have multiple answers across the document collection; for exam-ple, the question What is the profit for this company in 2024? might have a unique answer within a sin-gle document but could yield multiple answers in a multi-document setting. (ii) For the remaining queries, we retrieve the top-k slides for each query and use a VLM to determine whether each slide can answer the query. If only the golden page can answer the question, we consider it to meet the requirements. If pages other than the golden page can answer the query, we have experts manually evaluate and refine them. Please see Figure 10 and Figure 11 for detailed prompts. 

Step 4. Multimodal Refine. In this final step, we refine the queries that did not meet our stan-dards during the quality review. The goal is to adjust these queries so they satisfy the following requirements: (i) The refined query should point to specific pages within the large collection with min-imal additional information; (ii) The refined query must retain its original meaning. We use carefully designed VLM-based agents to assist us through-out the entire dataset construction pipeline. The prompt is presented in Figure 10 and Figure 11, re-spectively. We will first perform filtering based on semantics, and then conduct a fine-grained review using a multimodal reviewer. Please see Figure 12 for detailed prompts. 

F Retrieval Performance Across Various Data Types 

Apart from purely visual elements and text, ta-bles are elements that lie between text and two-dimensional distributions. In the retrieval stage, from the text retrieval perspective, the structured na-ture of tables allows the retrieval system to quickly locate keywords and match queries with table con-tent, enhancing precision. From the visual retrieval perspective, the 2D lay-out of tables enables vision models to identify their 9126 Table 13: Comparison between Existing Works and Our ViDoRAG. 

DIMENSION EXISTING WORKS OUR VIDORAG 

Retrieval Modality Single Modality (Text or Visual) Multi-Modality (both text and visual) Context Length Static Top-K requiring manual adjustment Dynamic top-k based on feature relevance Generation Paradigm Limited action space, overly reliant on textual reasoning capabilities, lacking visual percep-tion. Multi-modal generation framework with vi-sual feature-based action space, supporting visual scaling and coarse-to-fine reasoning. Reasoning Approach Text-based reasoning only, struggling with visual information Emphasizes visual coarse-to-fine reasoning, fully leveraging the reasoning capabilities of VLM models with limited context length. 

Table 14: Retrieval Performance on Table Type.                             

> Retriever Recall@1 Recall@3 Recall@5 MRR@5
> BM25 56.5 77.1 86.3 68.1 BGE-M3 (Chen et al., 2024a) 64.5 82.3 92.1 74.5 NV-Embed-V2 (Lee et al., 2024) 69.7 88.5 92.6 79.1 VisRAG-Ret (Yu et al., 2024a) 75.4 90.3 95.4 83.5 ColPali (Faysse et al., 2024) 79.4 94.3 97.7 86.9 ColQwen2 (Faysse et al., 2024) 85.7 96.6 98.9 91.4

structure and spatial relationships, facilitating rapid screening of relevant table images. The experimen-tal results in Figure 14 show that for table-type queries, the NV-Embed-V2 retriever achieved a Re-call@5 of 92.6% and an MRR@5 of 79.1%, while the ColQwen2 retriever achieved a Recall@5 of 98.9% and an MRR@5 of 91.4%. Their retrieval results still have a mutually exclusive set, demon-strating the complementary relationship in the final retrieval performance of the two modalities. In the ViDoRAG framework, integrating text and visual retrieval capabilities substantially enhances the re-trieval performance of tabular data with shorter con-text lengths as shown in Figure 4 of our manuscript. As shown in Figure 15, in the generation stage, our framework demonstrates a general improve-ment across all types of queries, including those in-volving tabular data. Understanding tables requires both spatial positional information and specific in-formation extraction. Our ViDoRAG treats tables as two-dimensional visual elements, enabling it to effectively integrate spatial and textual information during the reasoning process. Compared to Tex-tRAG and VisualRAG, our framework achieves a significant improvement in accuracy for table-type queries, reaching 73.6% with GPT-4o. 

G The Difference Between Our ViDoRAG and Existing Works 

As shown in Table 13, our method introduces four innovative aspects aimed at addressing key chal-lenges in visual document retrieval and reasoning. 

Table 15: Comparison of Different Methods.             

> Method Llama3.2-Vision-90B-Instruct Qwen2.5-VL-7B-Instruct GPT-4o
> TextRAG 41.8 53.8 61.0 VisualRAG 48.5 61.1 62.4 ViDoRAG 65.6 65.2 73.6

Multi-Modal Hybrid Retrieval. Our method is specifically designed for multi-modal retrieval. It takes into account the issue of insufficient granu-larity in visual retrieval and the inability of text retrieval to capture visual information. To date, current work in this field has not provided corre-sponding solutions to these problems. The existing work typically relies solely on ei-ther text or visual features, and is unable to capture features from both modalities. Additionally, the length of the context needs to be manually adjusted and cannot be automatically determined according to the query. Our Multi-Modal Hybrid Retrieval incorporates both textual and visual features, dynamically ad-justing retrieval results based on the similarity dis-tribution between the query and the document col-lection. This mechanism ensures that only the most relevant documents are retrieved, reducing noise and improving generation efficiency. This is a sig-nificant improvement compared to static top-K re-trieval methods that utilized a single modality. 

Multi-Agent Generation with Iterative Reason-ing. Our method offers an effective solution for the model’s visual perception, defining the agent’s action space based on visual features. This includes visual scaling up and down, as well as Coarse-to-Fine reasoning, which is the most significant differ-ence compared to existing works. The existing multi-agent methods are limited to text modality, and those actor-critic-based multi-agent frameworks mainly focus on exploring the boundaries of knowledge of models and reducing noise interference. 9127 Simply placing images into the context like text does not fully exploit the reasoning capabilities of VLMs. The multi-agent approach for text can-not truly address the key challenges at the multi-modal QA task. Our multi-agent framework is a novel multimodal generation framework that de-fines agents based on a visually specified action space, including visual scaling up and down. Our framework emphasizes visual Coarse-to-Fine rea-soning, fully leveraging the reasoning capabili-ties of current VLM models with limited context length. 

H More Details about Multi-Agent Generation with Iterative Reasoning 

We designed prompts to drive VLMs-based agents, and through our experiments, we found that some open-source models require the design of few-shot examples to learn specific thought patterns. See detailed prompts in Figure 13, Figure 14 and Figure 15. 9128 <think >Magee -1 has a natural gas content of 

49 %, helium content of 6%, and nitrogen 

Content of 44 %. Mount Kitty -1 has a natural 

gas content of 18 %, helium content of 9%,

and nitrogen content of 61 %. The difference 

in natural gas between them is 31 %,

the difference in helium is 3%, and the 

Difference in nitrogen content is 17 %.</ think> 

<Draft_answer >The difference in natural gas content 

between Mount Kitty -1 and Magee -1 is the largest .</ Draft _answer >

<reference> [2]</reference> 

Question : Which type of gas composition differs the most between Magee -1 and Mount Kitty -1?

<think> Image 1 presents the annual energy situation in North America, including natural gas 

and coal . Image 2 shows the energy consumption distribution in India for July 2006 . Image 3

illustrates Qatar's production performance in 

March . Image 4 includes a line chart explaining 

the production changes of liquid resources .

Image 5 contains relevant documents from 

Central Petroleum Company . Image 6 Explores 

the distribution of salinity . </think> 

<summary> I believe images 1 and 3 contain 

information related to energy in the context 

of the query .</summary> 

<choice>[ 1,3]</choice> 

<think >The image shows that Natural Gas is 

the gas with the most significant difference, 

which is 31 %, consistent with the draft answer .

</think> 

<answer >Natural Gas </ answer> 

Multi -Modal 

Hybrid Retrieval 

User 

Seeker 

Inspector 

Select & Zoom in 

<think> Image 1 mentions the gas composition 

of Magee -1 and Mount Kitty -1, but there is 

no relevant data provided . Image 2 pertains 

to information about Qatar, which is entirely 

unrelated to Magee -1 and Mount Kitty -1.</think> 

<feedback> I need more specific data about 

Magee -1 and Mount Kitty -1, with historical 

information showing they are located in the 

southern Amadeus .</feedback> 

<choice> [1]</choice> Save Image 1 to buffer .

Seeker 

<think> The feedback indicates that more detailed 

information about the gas composition is needed .

Image 2 mentions the Southern Amadeus, so I need to 

select Image 2 for further examination .</think> 

<summary> Image 2 provides detailed information on 

the composition and proportions of the gas found in 

Magee -1 and Mount Kitty -1.</summary> 

<choice> [2]</choice> 

With feedback :

Inspector 

Zoom in 

Save Image 2 as reference .

Answer 

With Draft Answer :Figure 9: Case of ViDoRAG. 9129 Query Reviewer Prompt. 

System Prompt: 

Task 

I have some QA data here, and you can observe that the questions can be divided into two categories: The category #A: When you see this question alone without a given document, you are sure to find a unique document in a corpus to provide a unique answer. The question having some key words to help you locate the document from corpus. The category #B: When you see this question alone without a given document, you will find hard to locate a document to give a deterministic answer for this question, because you will find multiple candidate documents in a corpus, which may lead to different answers for this question. The question do not have any special key words to help you locate the document from corpus. 

Examples 

The number mentioned on the right of the leftside margin? #B What is the date mentioned in the second table? #B What is the full form of PUF? #A What is the number at the bottom of the page, in bold? #B Who presented the results on cabin air quality study in commercial aircraft? #A What is the name of the corporation? #B Which part of Virginia is this letter sent from? #B who were bothered by cigarette odors? #A which cigarette would be better if offered on a thicker cigarette? #A Cigarettes will be produced and submitted to O/C Panel for what purpose? #A What is the heading of first table? #B What is RIP-6 value for KOOL KS? #A Which test is used to evaluate ART menthol levels that has been shipped? #A How much percent had not noticed any difference in the odor of VSSS? #A what mm Marlboro Menthol were subjectively smoked by the Richmond Panel? #A What are the steps of Weft Preparation between Spinning bobbin and Weaving? #A What level comes between Middle Managers and Non-managerial Employees? #A What are the six parts of COLLABORATION MODEL of the organization where James has a role of leading the UK digital strategy? #A 

User Prompt: 

Query: {Query Description} 

> Figure 10: Prompt of Query Reviewer.

Multi-Modal Reviewer Prompt. 

System Prompt: 

Please check the image, tell me whether the image can answer my question. 

User Prompt: 

Query: {Query Description} 

Image: {Relevant Image} 

> Figure 11: Prompt of Multi-Modal Reviewer.

9130 Multi-Modal Query Refiner Prompt. 

System Prompt: 

Task 

Rewrite the following question so that it contains specific keywords that clearly point to the provided document, ensuring that it would likely match this document alone within a larger corpus. 

Instruction 

- Do not add any additional information or context to the question. - You should not change the meaning of the question. - If the question is already specific and unique, you may leave it unchanged. - Please make the sentences you have rewritten more diverse and fluent. 

Examples 

- Original question: GIS data integration is part of which process? - Rewritten question: Citizen Science shows which process the GIS data integration is part of? - Original question: What percentage of apps ranked in the top five for including what resulted in a 10,3% Ranking Increase? - Rewritten question: According to the App Store Optimization what percentage of apps ranked in the top five for including what resulted in a 10,3% Ranking Increase? - Original question: Who is the author of the book, the title of which is the same as the section title of the presentation? - Rewritten question: Who is the author of the book, the title of which is the same as the section title of the presentation by Michael Sahota and Olaf Lewitz? - Original question: Which region of the world accounts for the highest percentage of revenues in the year 12% GROWTH is achieved? - Rewritten question: Which region of the world accounts for the highest percentage of revenues in the year 12% GROWTH is achieved? - Original question: What directly follows "conduct market research to refine" in the figure? - Rewritten question: What directly follows "conduct market research to refine" in the figure within the Social Velocity Strategic Plan Process? - Original question: How can the company which details 24 countries in the report be contacted? - Rewritten question: How can the company which details 24 countries in the Global Digital Statistics 2014 report, be contacted? - Original question: What substances are involved in the feeding of substrates? - Rewritten question: What substances are involved in the feeding of substrates during the production of penicillin? 

User Prompt: 

Query: {Query Description} 

Document: {Document Description} 

Image: {Image File} 

> Figure 12: Prompt of Multi-Modal Refiner.

9131 Seeker Agent Prompt. 

System Prompt: 

Character Introduction 

You are an artificial intelligence assistant with strong ability to find references to problems through images. The images are numbered in order, starting from zero and numbered as 0, 1, 2 ... Now please tell me what information you can get from all the images first, then help me choose the number of the best picture that can answer the question. 

Response Format 

The number of the image is starting from zero, and counting from left to right and top to bottom, and you should response with the image number in the following format: 

{" reason ": Evaluate the relevance of the image to the question step by step , " summary ": Extract the information related to the problem , " choice ": List [ int ] }

Response Example # open-source models sometimes need few-shot instructions. 

Example 1: Question : Who is the person playing a musical instrument in restaurant ? Response to Example 1: {" reason ": " Image 0 shows that KFC on Renmin Road has a birthday party on February 3 rd . I can know that there are musical instruments playing in Shanghai hotels during meals from Image 1. Image 2 shows that this is an invitation letter for the music performance of the New Year ’s Concert at Qintai Art Museum on December 31 st . The question is related to the restaurant , and Image 2 is not relevant to the question ." , " summary ": " KFC on Renmin Road has a birthday party on February 3 rd ; Shanghai hotels have musical instruments playing during meals ; The Qintai Art Museum will hold a New Year ’s concert on December 31 st ." , " choice ": [0 , 1] }Example 2: Question : What time is the train departing from hangzhou to beijing ? Response to Example 2: {" reason ": " Image 0 shows that Beijing has a temperature of 18 degrees Celsius . Image 0 is atrain ticket from hangzhou to beijing showing a departure time of 14:30. Image 1 is a photo of a train station clock , but it ’s blurry and hard to read the exact time . Image 2 shows a train schedule with multiple departure times listed . Image 3 is the timetable of Hangzhou Xiaoshan International Airport , and this image is not related to the issue . I think Image 0 is the most relevant to the question ." , " summary ": " The train ticket shows a departure time of 14:30; The train station clock is blurry ; Train schedule shows time ." , " choice ": [0] }Example 3: Question : Where can I find a bookstore that sells rare books ? Response to Example 3: {" reason ": " Image 0 is a street view of a shopping mall with various stores , but no bookstores are visible . Image 1 shows a sign for a bookstore called " Rare Finds Bookstore " specializing in rare books . Image 2 is a map with multiple bookstores marked , but it doesn ’t specify if they sell rare books . Image 3 is a photo of a library , which is not a place to buy books . Image 5 is a rare books list , which includes the names and prices of various books . ", " summary ": " The shopping mall has no visible bookstores ; Rare Finds Bookstore specializes in rare books ; Map shows multiple bookstores but doesn ’t specify rarity ; Library is not for buying books ; The price list includes the prices and names of rare books ." , " choice ": [1 , 5] }

User Prompt: 

Query: {Query Description} 

Images: {Candidate Images} 

Reflection: {Feedback From Inspector} 

Figure 13: Prompt of Seeker Agent. 9132 Inspector Agent Prompt. 

System Prompt: 

Character Introduction 

You are an artificial intelligence assistant with strong ability to answer questions through images. Please provide the answer to the question based on the information provided. 

Task Description 

- If the images can answer the question, please answer the question directly. - If the images are not enough to answer the question, please tell me which pictures are related to the question. 

Response Format 

- If the images can answer the question, please answer the question directly: 

{" reason ": Solve the question step by step , " answer ": Answer the question briefly with several words , " reference ": List [ int ] }

- If the images are not enough to answer the question, please tell me what additional information you need, and tell me which pictures are related to the question: 

{" reason ": Evaluate the relevance of the image to the question one by one , and solve the question step by step , " information ": Carefully clarify the information required , " choice ": List [ int ] }

Response Example # open-source models sometimes need few-shot instructions. 

- Example 1: {" reason ": " The image only provides information about the Bohr Model and does not include details about subshells in the Modern Quantum Cloud Model ." , " information ": " More information about the Bohr Model ." , " choice ": [] }- Example 2: {" reason ": " The images provide information about the # swallowaware campaign , including its aims and how they were measured . However , specific details on the success metrics are not clearly visible in the provided images ." , " information ": " More information about the success metrics of the # swallowaware campaign ." , " choice ": [0 , 1] }- Example 3: {" reason ": " We first found the restaurant name on the menu , and then we located the restaurant in the city center on the map ." , " answer ": " city center ", " reference ": [2 , 3] }- Example 4: {" reason ": " The entire process , from input , processing to output , ultimately produces a product with a purity of 42%." , " answer ": "42%" , " reference ": [0] }

User Prompt: 

Query: {Query Description} 

Plan: {Thought From Last Step.} 

Images: {Images Pending Review.} 

Figure 14: Prompt of Inspector Agent. 9133 Answer Agent Prompt. 

System Prompt: 

Character Introduction 

You are an artificial intelligence assistant with strong ability to answer questions through images. Please provide the answer to the question based on the information provided and tell me which pictures are your references. 

Response Format 

Please provide the answer in JSON format:               

> {" reason ": Solve the question step by step , " answer ": Answer the question briefly with several words , " reference ": List [ int ] }

User Prompt: 

Query: {Query Description} 

Draft Answer: {Draft Answer From Inspector} 

Images: {Reference Images} 

Figure 15: Prompt of Answer Agent. 

Model-based Evaluation Prompt. 

System Prompt: 

Task 

You are an expert evaluation system for a question answering chatbot, and you are given the following information: - a user query, - a generated answer, - and a reference answer to use for reference in your evaluation. Your job is to judge the relevance and correctness of the generated answer. Output a single score that represents a holistic evaluation. You must return your response in a line with only the score. Do not return answers in any other format. On a separate line provide your reasoning for the score as well. 

Instruction 

Follow these guidelines for scoring: - Your score has to be between 1 and 5, where 1 is the worst and 5 is the best. - If generated answer is not relevant to the user query, you should give a score of 1. - If generated answer is relevant but contains mistakes, you should give a score between 2 and 3. - If generated answer is relevant and fully correct, you should give a score between 4 and 5. 

Response Example 

4.0 The generated answer has the exact same metrics as the reference answer, but it is not as concise. 

User Prompt: 

Query: {Query Description} 

Reference Answer: {Reference Answer} 

Generated Answer: {Model’s Final Answer} 

Figure 16: Prompt of Model-based Evaluation. 9134