Title: 2025.emnlp-main.998.pdf

URL Source: https://aclanthology.org/2025.emnlp-main.998.pdf

Published Time: Sat, 03 Jan 2026 16:57:43 GMT

Number of Pages: 12

Markdown Content:
> Proceedings of the 2025 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 19723–19734 November 4-9, 2025 ©2025 Association for Computational Linguistics

# Search Wisely: Mitigating Sub-optimal Agentic Searches By Reducing Uncertainty 

Peilin Wu 1∗

, Mian Zhang 1∗

, Xinlu Zhang 2, Xinya Du 1, Zhiyu Zoey Chen 1

> 1

Department of Computer Science, The University of Texas at Dallas, 

> 2

Department of Computer Science, University of California, Santa Barbara, 

{peilin.wu, mian.zhang, zhiyu.chen2}@utdallas.edu 

Abstract 

Agentic Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) systems enhance Large Language Mod-els (LLMs) by enabling dynamic, multi-step reasoning and information retrieval. However, these systems often exhibit sub-optimal search behaviors like over-search (retrieving redundant information) and under-search (failing to initiate retrieval for necessary information), which hinder efficiency and reliability. This work formally defines and quantifies these behaviors, revealing their prevalence across multiple QA datasets and agentic RAG systems (e.g., one model could have avoided searching in 27.7% of its search steps). Furthermore, we demonstrate a crucial link between these inefficiencies and the models’ uncertainty regarding their own knowledge boundaries, where response accuracy correlates with model’s uncertainty or confidence in its search decisions. To address this, we propose β-GRPO, a rein-forcement learning-based training method that incorporates confidence threshold to reward high-certainty search decisions. Experiments on seven QA benchmarks show that β-GRPO enable a 3B model with better agentic RAG ability, outperforming other strong baselines with a 4% higher average exact match score, with lower over-search and under-search rate 1.

1 Introduction 

Recent advances in Large Language Models (LLMs) have propelled their use in information-intensive tasks such as question answering and knowledge synthesis, especially when paired with retrieval capabilities (Wang et al., 2025b). Agen-tic Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) frame-works (Jin et al., 2025a; Song et al., 2025a; Chen et al., 2025) push this further by empowering LLMs to perform multi-step reasoning (Li et al., 2025)  

> ∗
> Equal contribution
> 1We have release our code for training at https://github. com/mianzhang/Search-R1 .

and dynamically decide when and what to retrieve (Guan et al., 2025), closely emulating sophisticated human research processes. However, despite these advancements, current agentic RAG systems of-ten struggle with efficiency and reliability due to sub-optimal search behaviors (Shen et al., 2024; Qian et al., 2025; Wang et al., 2025a). In particu-lar, two major challenges: 1) over-search, where the model retrieves information it already knows , and 2) under-search, where it fails to seek external knowledge when necessary, have been identified as critical obstacles that degrade performance. In this work, we conduct a thorough quantita-tive analysis to identify and measure the preva-lence of over-search and under-search. Our exper-iments on several multi-hop QA datasets (2Wiki-MultiHopQA (Ho et al., 2020), Bamboogle (Press et al., 2023), HotpotQA (Yang et al., 2018), and MuSiQue (Trivedi et al., 2022)) using contempo-rary LLMs like R1-Searcher (Song et al., 2025a) and Search-R1 (Jin et al., 2025a) reveal significant instances of sub-optimal search. We also further explore the connection between these behaviors and a model’s awareness of its knowledge bound-aries, finding that candidate responses generated with higher certainty about the necessity of a search query tend to achieve better accuracy. To address this, we introduce β-GRPO, a variant of GRPO (Shao et al., 2024) where the confidence of search calls are modeled as the minimal token probability of the search queries produced by the model and a confidence threshold is incorporated into the reward function, only encouraging gener-ations with high-certainty search calls leading to correct answer. Through extensive experiments on seven QA benchmarks, we show that β-GRPO enables a 3B model with better agentic RAG abil-ity compared to strong baselines with a 4% higher average exact match score and 1.21% fewer over-searches and 7.33% fewer under-searches. 

19723 2 Identifying Sub-optimal Search 

To investigate the prevalence of over-search and under-search, we conduct three experiments with the test sets of four widely recognized multihop QA datasets: 2WikiMultiHopQA (Ho et al., 2020), Bamboogle (Press et al., 2023), HotpotQA (Yang et al., 2018), and MuSiQue (Trivedi et al., 2022). We mainly investigate two recent LLMs that inter-act with search engines: R1-Searcher (Song et al., 2025b) and Search-R1 (Jin et al., 2025b). We adopt the version trained based on Qwen2.5-7B (Qwen et al., 2025) for a fair comparison. 

2.1 Formal Definition of Under-search & Over-search 

Formally, let an LLM agent’s interaction for a ques-tion be a sequence of steps T = {s1, s 2, . . . , s N }.Each step st comprises a reasoning component rt.If the model decides to retrieve information, the re-trieval step sRt = ( rt, q t, c t) includes a search sub-query qt and the retrieved context ct = search (qt).The sub-answer at for this step sRt is typically de-rived using ct and reflected in rt+1 . If the model does not retrieve, the non-retrieval step sN R t = ( rt)

relies on the existing context {s1, s 2, . . . , s t−1}

and the model’s internal knowledge M to derive at

reflected in rt. Let a∗ 

> t

be the ground-truth answer step st. Over-search occurs if a retrieval step sRt ’s answer at could have been derived from M and 

{s1, s 2, . . . , s t−1} only. Under-search occurs if a non-retrieval step sN R t leads to at̸ = a∗ 

> t

.

2.2 Step-wise Analysis 

To directly measure whether a search step was truly necessary, we separate all outputs into individual steps and identify if each of them matches with the definition of over-search and under-search as described in Section 2.1. For over-search rate mea-surement, we prompted the model to answer sub-queries from all the steps with search behavior us-ing only their internal knowledge and the preceding context. For under-search, we examine steps with-out searching and evaluate the correctness of the generated information. A detailed explanation of the analysis pipeline is provided in Appendix A.1 with a flow chart in Figure 1. 

Capability to Answer from Memory The re-sults in Figure 2 show that a significant portion of search actions were instances of over-search. R1-Searcher could have answered correctly with-out searching in 20.2% of its search steps over-Original  

> Output Steps
> Without
> search
> Modify the
> output by
> removing the
> content after
> reasoning
> Compare the
> original and re -
> generated step
> External verifier
> (larger LLM) check
> the correctness
> Over -search
> Different
> answer
> Correct usage
> of search
> Correct
> decision
> of not
> search
> Incorrect
> Under -search
> With
> search
> Extract
> Steps via
> LLM
> Re -
> generate
> via LLM
> Correct
> Equivalent
> answer

Figure 1: Flowchart of analysis pipeline for over-search and under-search. 0         

> 5
> 10
> 15
> 20
> 25
> 30
> 01234567Overall
> Over -search Rate (%)
> Num. of Search
> R1-Searcher Search-R1

Figure 2: Percentage for all search steps that can be answered without performing searches of R1-Searcher and Search-R1 on 4 datasets combined, with respect to the number of searches of each test sample. 

Figure 3: Error rate for all non-search steps of R1-Searcher and Search-R1 on 4 datasets combined, with respect to the number of searches of each test sample. 

all, while Search-R1 could have done so in 27.7% of its search steps. This highlights a substantial room for efficiency improvement. Figure 2 also shows the over-search rate for each subset of test samples grouped by the total number of search steps an agent used to solve an entire problem in-stance. The results per each subset indicates that over-search is a persistent issue irrespective of the overall search complexity adopted by the model for a given problem. Despite the step-wise analy-sis, we also conduct an analysis on comparing the number of searches versus the pre-given number of hops from the dataset in Appendix A.2, which also supports our conclusion. 19724 Model Config Prob. Group 2Wiki Bamboogle HotpotQA Musique                                     

> Base + PPO Max 0.184 0.096 0.152 0.038 Min 0.168 0.096 0.114 0.038 Base + GRPO Max 0.249 0.112 0.327 0.085
> Min 0.234 0.104 0.289 0.056 Instruct + PPO Max 0.333 0.250 0.262 0.138
> Min 0.297 0.250 0.262 0.116 Instruct + GRPO Max 0.402 0.125 0.343 0.116 Min 0.402 0.063 0.302 0.116

Table 1: Cover EM scores on multi-hop QA datasets, comparing groups of responses with higher vs. lower uncertainty (derived from average of minimum proba-bility of search query tokens) on knowledge boundary. Bold indicates instances where the Max Prob. group achieved a strictly better performance. 

Error Rate in Non-Search Steps Figure 3 ana-lyzes the error rate in non-search steps, which can be seen as the rate of under-search. Both mod-els exhibited high error rates (R1-Searcher: 63%, Search-R1: 33.98%) in non-search steps, suggest-ing a strong tendency towards under-search leading to incorrect reasoning or hallucination. For R1-Searcher, this error rate was particularly high with fewer total searches (over 72% if no searches were made). For Search-R1, errors in non-search steps remained notable even when performing many searches overall (e.g., 48.70% for 4-search prob-lems), possibly due to decision complexity in later stages. (See Figure 3 for detailed error rates by search step count). 

2.3 Sub-optimal Search & Knowledge Boundary 

The observed tendencies towards over-search and under-search, combined with our definition, sug-gest a core deficiency in how agentic RAG models perceive knowledge boundaries—the limits of what they know versus what they need to find out. To illustrate the link between better knowledge bound-ary awareness and improved outcomes, we analyze the performance of 4 Qwen2.5-3B based Search-R1 models (including PPO and GRPO trained, Base and Instruct variants). We generate 5 candidate responses for each question and group these re-sponses based on each output’s minimum proba-bilities within all the search query tokens in a trajectory as the indication of certainty on knowl-edge boundary. As shown in Table 1, candidate responses gener-ated with lower intrinsic uncertainty generally lead to higher final accuracy (as high as 6% on Bam-boogle and 3.8% on HotpotQA), across different training methods and base models. This suggests that when the model exhibits higher confidence (lower uncertainty) in its generation path, it is more likely to be on a correct trajectory. Therefore, im-proving an agent’s ability to accurately gauge its in-ternal knowledge state—effectively sharpening its knowledge boundary detection and reducing undue uncertainty—is a crucial step towards mitigating both over-search and under-search, thereby enhanc-ing the overall efficiency and reliability of agentic RAG systems. Our approach is motivated by this principle, aiming to train agents to better assess and reduce uncertainty at each search decision. 

3 Approach 

Current RL powered agentic RAG methods (Jin et al., 2025a; Song et al., 2025a; Chen et al., 2025) do not explicitly model the knowledge self-awareness during the training process, resulting in generations with low confidence, which are not desired and shown to easily contain wrong an-swer compared to generations with higher confi-dence (Table 1). To this end, we propose a simple yet effective variant of GRPO (Shao et al., 2024), 

β-GRPO, which leverages the uncertainty of the search query spans for more effective rewarding and training. 

Agentic RAG with RL (Search-R1 (Jin et al., 2025a)) Given a question, we prompt the pol-icy model to explicitly reason enclosed within 

<think></think> tags about whether to use an off-the-shelf search tool, and, if so, to generate a search query within <search></search> tags. The search tool then returns relevant documents in-side <information></information> tags. Once obtaining new information, the policy model can either continue searching for addi-tional information or provide a final answer within 

<answer></answer> tags. The instruction given to the policy model could be found in Appendix A.3. If the final answer match the groundtruth, the response will be given a reward 1, otherwise 0. And the policy are updated via policy gradient methods like GRPO (Shao et al., 2024). 

β-GRPO Motivated by the observation that roll-outs with low-confidence search calls are more likely to be incorrect, we incorporate model con-fidence into the RL reward process. Specifically, for each rollout containing search calls (enclosed within <search></search> tags), we extract the probabilities of the search tokens including the tags and use the minimum probability among them as a measure of the model confidence for the search 19725 Methods General QA Multi-Hop QA NQ † TriviaQA ⋆ PopQA ⋆ HotpotQA † 2wiki ⋆ Musique ⋆ Bamboogle ⋆ Average                                                                                 

> Direct Prompting 0.106 0.288 0.108 0.149 0.244 0.020 0.024 0.134 CoT Prompting 0.023 0.032 0.005 0.021 0.021 0.002 0.000 0.015 IRCoT 0.111 0.312 0.200 0.164 0.171 0.067 0.240 0.181 Search-o1 0.238 0.472 0.262 0.221 0.218 0.054 0.320 0.255 RAG 0.348 0.544 0.387 0.255 0.226 0.047 0.080 0.270 SFT 0.249 0.292 0.104 0.186 0.248 0.044 0.112 0.176 R1 0.226 0.455 0.173 0.201 0.268 0.055 0.224 0.229 Search-R1 0.406 0.587 0.435 0.284 0.273 0.049 0.088 0.303 Search-R1-GRPO 0.432 0.578 0.413 0.294 0.271 0.067 0.112 0.309 Search-R1-β-GRPO (ours) 0.468 0.625 0.449 0.334 0.304 0.086 0.144 0.344

Table 2: Main results. The best performance is set in bold. †/⋆ represents in-domain/out-domain datasets. 

calls within a rollout (Jiang et al., 2023). We then set a confidence threshold β: only rollouts with the confidence of search calls (if exist) above β

and correct answers receive a reward of 1, other-wise 0. Formally, for a given reasoning trajectory 

T = s1, s 2, ..., s N as described in Section 2.1, with predicted final answer af , ground-truth final an-swer a∗ 

> f

, and confidence C(T ) the reward R(T ) is calculated as Equation 1, 

R(T ) = 

{

1, if af = a∗ 

> f

∧ C(T ) > β 

0, otherwise (1) where C(T ) is the confidence of trajectory T

calculated as Equation 2, 

C(T ) = min  

> sRt∈T,w ∈qt

P (w) (2) where w is the token that makes up the search query qt for a given retrieval step and P (w) is the probability assigned to w.

4 Experiments 

Datasets We follow Search-R1 (Jin et al., 2025a) using a mixture of the NQ (Kwiatkowski et al., 2019) and HotpotQA (Yang et al., 2018) training sets for model training. For evaluation, we con-sider seven QA benchmarks, including general QA datasets, NQ, TriviaQA (Joshi et al., 2017), and PopQA (Mallen et al., 2023), as well as multi-hop QA datasets: HotpotQA, 2WikiMultiHopQA (Ho et al., 2020), Bamboogle (Press et al., 2023), and MuSiQue (Trivedi et al., 2022). Exact match (EM) is used as our main evaluation metric. 

Baselines We compare our method with several baselines: methods that do not use a retriever including direct prompting, Chain-of-Thought (CoT) (Wei et al., 2022) prompting, supervised fine-tuning (SFT) (Chung et al., 2022), and reinforce-ment learning-based fine-tuning (R1) (DeepSeek-AI et al., 2025); methods that use a retriever but do not perform agentic retrieval, such as Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) (Lewis et al., 2020) and IRCoT (Trivedi et al., 2023); and finally, agen-tic retrieval methods, including Search-o1 (Li et al., 2025) and Search-R1 (Jin et al., 2025a). Based on our preliminary experiments, we found that training the policy model from scratch us-ing our confidence-based rewards prevents it from learning effective search behavior. Therefore, we use Qwen2.5-3B (Qwen et al., 2025) and initial-ize it with the parameters from Search-R1. Then we continue training using GRPO with different reward functions: one using the original answer-based reward (Search-R1-GRPO), and the other us-ing our proposed confidence-based reward (Search-R1-β-GRPO). We set the value of β as 0.4 accord-ing to the analysis in Section 5. Detailed training configurations could be found in Appendix A.5. 

Results As shown in Table 2, agentic search with RL training (Search-R1*) significantly outperforms other baselines, indicating that incorporating search through autonomous reasoning and RL training is more effective than non-agentic or prompting meth-ods. Our model, Search-R1-β-GRPO, achieves the highest overall average EM score across the datasets. Figure 4 in Appendix A.5 shows the train-ing rewards for Search-R1-GRPO and Search-R1-

β-GRPO. We observe that the rewards for Search-R1-GRPO fluctuate and do not show clear improve-ment over training steps. In contrast, Search-R1-

β-GRPO achieves higher and more stable rewards. This improved performance suggests that our pro-posed reward assignment based on the confidence of search calls within a rollout is effective. 19726 Baseline Model (Search-R1-GRPO) Our Model (Search-R1-β-GRPO)        

> Case 1: Mitigating Over-search for common knowledge questions
> Question : Who was the first president of the United States? Question : Who was the first president of the United States?
> Generation : <think> The user is asking a question about a historical figure. To ensure accuracy, I will perform a search. </think> <search> first president of the United States </search>
> Generation : <think> The user is asking for the first president of the United States. This is a well-established fact stored in my parametric knowledge. I am highly confident in the answer and do not need to perform an external search. </think> <information>Doc 1: ... Doc 2: ... </information> <answer> George Washington </answer> <answer> George Washington </answer>
> Correctness : Correct Correctness : Correct
> Case 2: Mitigating Under-search for knowledge-intensive questions
> Question : In what Country is Sul America Esporte Clube in? Question : In what Country is Sul America Esporte Clube in?
> Generation : <think> The question asks for the country of Sul America Esporte Clube. The name "Sul America" sounds Portuguese or Spanish, suggesting a location in South America. It could be in Argentina or Colombia. I will make a guess based on common football leagues. </think>
> Generation : <think> The user is asking for the location of a specific sports club, "Sul America Esporte Clube". This is a niche entity, and my internal knowledge is likely insufficient. To provide an accurate answer, I must perform a search. </think> <search> country of Sul America Esporte Clube </search> <answer> Argentina </answer> <information> Doc 1: ... Doc 2: ... </information> <answer> Brazil </answer> (Confidence: 0.99)
> Correctness : Incorrect Correctness : Correct

Table 3: Case Study comparing search behaviors. The top pair demonstrates how our model avoids an unnecessary search (over-search) for a common fact. The bottom pair shows our model correcting a failure to search (under-search), preventing hallucination for a niche query. Retrieved documents are omitted or summarized for clarity. 

5 Analysis 

Ablation on β & Case Study Following Jiang et al. (2023), we experiment with three confidence threshold values: 0.2, 0.4, and 0.6. The aver-age EM scores are 0.341, 0.344 and 0.336 with a threshold of 0.4 yields the best result. More-over, we find 115 test cases from the multi-hop QA datasets where Search-R1-β-GRPO produces a cor-rect answer with higher confidence, while Search-R1-GRPO gives an incorrect answer. These cases clearly benefit from the increased model confidence enabled by the proposed β-GRPO. 

Under-searches & Over-searches We also mea-sure the rate of over-search and under-search of our Search-R1-β-GRPO and the baseline Search-R1-GRPO trained based on Qwen2.5-3B with the methods in Section 2.2. Compared with Search-R1-GRPO, which has overall 21.10% over-search rate and 42.04% under-search rate%, our Search-R1-β-GRPO achieves 19.89% over-search rate and 34.71% under-search rate, which are lower than the baseline method. This shows that our method effec-tively reduces both types of sub-optimal searches. 

Case Study Our case study in Table 3 highlights the model’s improved search decisions. For a sim-ple question ("Who was the first president?"), the baseline model performs an unnecessary search, whereas our model confidently answers from its internal knowledge. Conversely, when faced with an obscure query ("In what Country is Sul America Esporte Clube in?"), the baseline hallucinates an incorrect answer. Our model correctly identifies this knowledge gap, initiates a search, and provides the accurate answer. 

6 Conclusion 

In this work, we formally define sub-optimal search behaviors, over-search and under-search, in agentic RAG systems. Our analysis showed these behav-iors are widespread; for instance, one model could have avoided searching in 27.7% of its search steps, while another exhibited error rates as high as 63% in non-search steps, indicating significant under-searching. We established a link between these inefficiencies and a model’s uncertainty about its knowledge boundaries, finding that higher confi-dence in search decisions correlates with better accuracy. By introducing β-GRPO, a confidence-aware policy gradient method, we enable a 3B model with better agentic RAG ability than strong baselines. This approach, which rewards only high-certainty search decisions that lead to correct an-swers, resulted in a 4% higher average exact match score and notable reductions in both over-search and under-search rates. Future work should ex-plore more sophisticated and fine-grained reward design on trajectory, with experiments on larger size models. 19727 Limitations 

We formally define and quantify sub-optimal search behaviors in agentic RAG systems and pro-pose β-GRPO to train agentic RAG models with improved self-knowledge awareness. However, we acknowledge that sub-optimal search behav-iors, over-search and under-search, are persistent challenges that require further investigation, es-pecially in more open-ended tasks like deep re-search (Alzubi et al., 2025). Additionally, due to limited computational resources, we are unable to train larger models and leave it for future work. 

Acknowledgements 

We thank the anonymous reviewers for their thoughtful comments and suggestions. We are also grateful to our colleagues and collaborators for their insightful discussions and support throughout this project. 

References 

Salaheddin Alzubi, Creston Brooks, Purva Chiniya, Edoardo Contente, Chiara von Gerlach, Lucas Irwin, Yihan Jiang, Arda Kaz, Windsor Nguyen, Sewoong Oh, Himanshu Tyagi, and Pramod Viswanath. 2025. Open deep search: Democratizing search with open-source reasoning agents. arXiv [cs.LG] .Mingyang Chen, Tianpeng Li, Haoze Sun, Yijie Zhou, Chenzheng Zhu, Fan Yang, Zenan Zhou, Weipeng Chen, Haofen Wang, Jeff Z Pan, Wen Zhang, and Huajun Chen. 2025. ReSearch: Learning to reason with search for LLMs via reinforcement learning. 

arXiv [cs.AI] .Hyung Won Chung, Le Hou, Shayne Longpre, Barret Zoph, Yi Tay, William Fedus, Yunxuan Li, Xuezhi Wang, Mostafa Dehghani, Siddhartha Brahma, Al-bert Webson, Shixiang Shane Gu, Zhuyun Dai, Mirac Suzgun, Xinyun Chen, Aakanksha Chowdh-ery, Alex Castro-Ros, Marie Pellat, Kevin Robinson, Dasha Valter, Sharan Narang, Gaurav Mishra, Adams Yu, Vincent Zhao, Yanping Huang, Andrew Dai, Hongkun Yu, Slav Petrov, Ed H Chi, Jeff Dean, Ja-cob Devlin, Adam Roberts, Denny Zhou, Quoc V Le, and Jason Wei. 2022. Scaling instruction-finetuned language models. arXiv [cs.LG] .DeepSeek-AI, Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Haowei Zhang, Junxiao Song, Ruoyu Zhang, Runxin Xu, Qihao Zhu, Shirong Ma, Peiyi Wang, Xiao Bi, Xiaokang Zhang, Xingkai Yu, Yu Wu, Z F Wu, Zhibin Gou, Zhihong Shao, Zhuoshu Li, Ziyi Gao, Aixin Liu, Bing Xue, Bingxuan Wang, Bochao Wu, Bei Feng, Chengda Lu, Chenggang Zhao, Chengqi Deng, Chenyu Zhang, Chong Ruan, Damai Dai, Deli Chen, Dongjie Ji, Erhang Li, Fangyun Lin, Fucong Dai, Fuli Luo, Guangbo Hao, Guanting Chen, Guowei Li, H Zhang, Han Bao, Hanwei Xu, Haocheng Wang, Honghui Ding, Huajian Xin, Huazuo Gao, Hui Qu, Hui Li, Jianzhong Guo, Jiashi Li, Jiawei Wang, Jingchang Chen, Jingyang Yuan, Junjie Qiu, Junlong Li, J L Cai, Jiaqi Ni, Jian Liang, Jin Chen, Kai Dong, Kai Hu, Kaige Gao, Kang Guan, Kexin Huang, Kuai Yu, Lean Wang, Lecong Zhang, Liang Zhao, Litong Wang, Liyue Zhang, Lei Xu, Leyi Xia, Mingchuan Zhang, Minghua Zhang, Minghui Tang, Meng Li, Miaojun Wang, Mingming Li, Ning Tian, Pan-pan Huang, Peng Zhang, Qiancheng Wang, Qinyu Chen, Qiushi Du, Ruiqi Ge, Ruisong Zhang, Ruizhe Pan, Runji Wang, R J Chen, R L Jin, Ruyi Chen, Shanghao Lu, Shangyan Zhou, Shanhuang Chen, Shengfeng Ye, Shiyu Wang, Shuiping Yu, Shunfeng Zhou, Shuting Pan, S S Li, Shuang Zhou, Shaoqing Wu, Shengfeng Ye, Tao Yun, Tian Pei, Tianyu Sun, T Wang, Wangding Zeng, Wanjia Zhao, Wen Liu, Wenfeng Liang, Wenjun Gao, Wenqin Yu, Wentao Zhang, W L Xiao, Wei An, Xiaodong Liu, Xiaohan Wang, Xiaokang Chen, Xiaotao Nie, Xin Cheng, Xin Liu, Xin Xie, Xingchao Liu, Xinyu Yang, Xinyuan Li, Xuecheng Su, Xuheng Lin, X Q Li, Xiangyue Jin, Xiaojin Shen, Xiaosha Chen, Xiaowen Sun, Xiaoxi-ang Wang, Xinnan Song, Xinyi Zhou, Xianzu Wang, Xinxia Shan, Y K Li, Y Q Wang, Y X Wei, Yang Zhang, Yanhong Xu, Yao Li, Yao Zhao, Yaofeng Sun, Yaohui Wang, Yi Yu, Yichao Zhang, Yifan Shi, Yiliang Xiong, Ying He, Yishi Piao, Yisong Wang, Yixuan Tan, Yiyang Ma, Yiyuan Liu, Yongqiang Guo, Yuan Ou, Yuduan Wang, Yue Gong, Yuheng Zou, Yu-jia He, Yunfan Xiong, Yuxiang Luo, Yuxiang You, Yuxuan Liu, Yuyang Zhou, Y X Zhu, Yanhong Xu, Yanping Huang, Yaohui Li, Yi Zheng, Yuchen Zhu, Yunxian Ma, Ying Tang, Yukun Zha, Yuting Yan, Z Z Ren, Zehui Ren, Zhangli Sha, Zhe Fu, Zhean Xu, Zhenda Xie, Zhengyan Zhang, Zhewen Hao, Zhicheng Ma, Zhigang Yan, Zhiyu Wu, Zihui Gu, Zi-jia Zhu, Zijun Liu, Zilin Li, Ziwei Xie, Ziyang Song, Zizheng Pan, Zhen Huang, Zhipeng Xu, Zhongyu Zhang, and Zhen Zhang. 2025. DeepSeek-R1: Incen-tivizing reasoning capability in LLMs via reinforce-ment learning. arXiv [cs.CL] .Xinyan Guan, Jiali Zeng, Fandong Meng, Chunlei Xin, Yaojie Lu, Hongyu Lin, Xianpei Han, Le Sun, and Jie Zhou. 2025. Deeprag: Thinking to retrieval step by step for large language models. Xanh Ho, Anh-Khoa Duong Nguyen, Saku Sugawara, and Akiko Aizawa. 2020. Constructing a multi-hop QA dataset for comprehensive evaluation of reasoning steps. In Proceedings of the 28th Inter-national Conference on Computational Linguistics ,pages 6609–6625, Barcelona, Spain (Online). Inter-national Committee on Computational Linguistics. Zhengbao Jiang, Frank F Xu, Luyu Gao, Zhiqing Sun, Qian Liu, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Yiming Yang, Jamie Callan, and Graham Neubig. 2023. Active retrieval augmented generation. arXiv [cs.CL] .Bowen Jin, Hansi Zeng, Zhenrui Yue, Dong Wang, Hamed Zamani, and Jiawei Han. 2025a. Search-R1: 19728 Training LLMs to reason and leverage search engines with reinforcement learning. arXiv [cs.CL] .Bowen Jin, Hansi Zeng, Zhenrui Yue, Jinsung Yoon, Sercan Arik, Dong Wang, Hamed Zamani, and Jiawei Han. 2025b. Search-r1: Training llms to reason and leverage search engines with reinforcement learning. Mandar Joshi, Eunsol Choi, Daniel S Weld, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2017. TriviaQA: A large scale distantly supervised challenge dataset for reading comprehen-sion. Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas O˘ guz, Sewon Min, Patrick Lewis, Ledell Wu, Sergey Edunov, Danqi Chen, and Wen-Tau Yih. 2020. Dense passage retrieval for open-domain question answering. arXiv [cs.CL] .Tom Kwiatkowski, Jennimaria Palomaki, Olivia Red-field, Michael Collins, Ankur Parikh, Chris Alberti, Danielle Epstein, Illia Polosukhin, Jacob Devlin, Ken-ton Lee, Kristina Toutanova, Llion Jones, Matthew Kelcey, Ming-Wei Chang, Andrew M Dai, Jakob Uszkoreit, Quoc Le, and Slav Petrov. 2019. Natural questions: A benchmark for question answering re-search. Trans. Assoc. Comput. Linguist. , 7:453–466. Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Hein-rich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-Tau Yih, Tim Rock-täschel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe Kiela. 2020. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive NLP tasks. arXiv [cs.CL] .Xiaoxi Li, Guanting Dong, Jiajie Jin, Yuyao Zhang, Yujia Zhou, Yutao Zhu, Peitian Zhang, and Zhicheng Dou. 2025. Search-o1: Agentic search-enhanced large reasoning models. arXiv [cs.AI] .Alex Mallen, Akari Asai, Victor Zhong, Rajarshi Das, Daniel Khashabi, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2023. When not to trust language models: Investigating effectiveness of parametric and non-parametric mem-ories. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Vol-ume 1: Long Papers) , Stroudsburg, PA, USA. Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics. OpenAI, :, Aaron Hurst, Adam Lerer, Adam P. Goucher, Adam Perelman, Aditya Ramesh, Aidan Clark, AJ Ostrow, Akila Welihinda, Alan Hayes, Alec Radford, Aleksander M ˛ adry, Alex Baker-Whitcomb, Alex Beutel, Alex Borzunov, Alex Carney, Alex Chow, Alex Kirillov, Alex Nichol, Alex Paino, Alex Renzin, Alex Tachard Passos, Alexander Kirillov, Alexi Christakis, Alexis Conneau, Ali Kamali, Allan Jabri, Allison Moyer, Allison Tam, Amadou Crookes, Amin Tootoochian, Amin Tootoonchian, Ananya Kumar, Andrea Vallone, Andrej Karpathy, Andrew Braunstein, Andrew Cann, Andrew Codispoti, An-drew Galu, Andrew Kondrich, Andrew Tulloch, An-drey Mishchenko, Angela Baek, Angela Jiang, An-toine Pelisse, Antonia Woodford, Anuj Gosalia, Arka Dhar, Ashley Pantuliano, Avi Nayak, Avital Oliver, Barret Zoph, Behrooz Ghorbani, Ben Leimberger, Ben Rossen, Ben Sokolowsky, Ben Wang, Benjamin Zweig, Beth Hoover, Blake Samic, Bob McGrew, Bobby Spero, Bogo Giertler, Bowen Cheng, Brad Lightcap, Brandon Walkin, Brendan Quinn, Brian Guarraci, Brian Hsu, Bright Kellogg, Brydon East-man, Camillo Lugaresi, Carroll Wainwright, Cary Bassin, Cary Hudson, Casey Chu, Chad Nelson, Chak Li, Chan Jun Shern, Channing Conger, Char-lotte Barette, Chelsea Voss, Chen Ding, Cheng Lu, Chong Zhang, Chris Beaumont, Chris Hallacy, Chris Koch, Christian Gibson, Christina Kim, Christine Choi, Christine McLeavey, Christopher Hesse, Clau-dia Fischer, Clemens Winter, Coley Czarnecki, Colin Jarvis, Colin Wei, Constantin Koumouzelis, Dane Sherburn, Daniel Kappler, Daniel Levin, Daniel Levy, David Carr, David Farhi, David Mely, David Robin-son, David Sasaki, Denny Jin, Dev Valladares, Dim-itris Tsipras, Doug Li, Duc Phong Nguyen, Duncan Findlay, Edede Oiwoh, Edmund Wong, Ehsan As-dar, Elizabeth Proehl, Elizabeth Yang, Eric Antonow, Eric Kramer, Eric Peterson, Eric Sigler, Eric Wal-lace, Eugene Brevdo, Evan Mays, Farzad Khorasani, Felipe Petroski Such, Filippo Raso, Francis Zhang, Fred von Lohmann, Freddie Sulit, Gabriel Goh, Gene Oden, Geoff Salmon, Giulio Starace, Greg Brockman, Hadi Salman, Haiming Bao, Haitang Hu, Hannah Wong, Haoyu Wang, Heather Schmidt, Heather Whitney, Heewoo Jun, Hendrik Kirchner, Henrique Ponde de Oliveira Pinto, Hongyu Ren, Huiwen Chang, Hyung Won Chung, Ian Kivlichan, Ian O’Connell, Ian O’Connell, Ian Osband, Ian Sil-ber, Ian Sohl, Ibrahim Okuyucu, Ikai Lan, Ilya Kostrikov, Ilya Sutskever, Ingmar Kanitscheider, Ishaan Gulrajani, Jacob Coxon, Jacob Menick, Jakub Pachocki, James Aung, James Betker, James Crooks, James Lennon, Jamie Kiros, Jan Leike, Jane Park, Jason Kwon, Jason Phang, Jason Teplitz, Jason Wei, Jason Wolfe, Jay Chen, Jeff Harris, Jenia Var-avva, Jessica Gan Lee, Jessica Shieh, Ji Lin, Jiahui Yu, Jiayi Weng, Jie Tang, Jieqi Yu, Joanne Jang, Joaquin Quinonero Candela, Joe Beutler, Joe Lan-ders, Joel Parish, Johannes Heidecke, John Schul-man, Jonathan Lachman, Jonathan McKay, Jonathan Uesato, Jonathan Ward, Jong Wook Kim, Joost Huizinga, Jordan Sitkin, Jos Kraaijeveld, Josh Gross, Josh Kaplan, Josh Snyder, Joshua Achiam, Joy Jiao, Joyce Lee, Juntang Zhuang, Justyn Harriman, Kai Fricke, Kai Hayashi, Karan Singhal, Katy Shi, Kavin Karthik, Kayla Wood, Kendra Rimbach, Kenny Hsu, Kenny Nguyen, Keren Gu-Lemberg, Kevin Button, Kevin Liu, Kiel Howe, Krithika Muthukumar, Kyle Luther, Lama Ahmad, Larry Kai, Lauren Itow, Lau-ren Workman, Leher Pathak, Leo Chen, Li Jing, Lia Guy, Liam Fedus, Liang Zhou, Lien Mamitsuka, Lil-ian Weng, Lindsay McCallum, Lindsey Held, Long Ouyang, Louis Feuvrier, Lu Zhang, Lukas Kon-draciuk, Lukasz Kaiser, Luke Hewitt, Luke Metz, Lyric Doshi, Mada Aflak, Maddie Simens, Madelaine Boyd, Madeleine Thompson, Marat Dukhan, Mark Chen, Mark Gray, Mark Hudnall, Marvin Zhang, Marwan Aljubeh, Mateusz Litwin, Matthew Zeng, Max Johnson, Maya Shetty, Mayank Gupta, Meghan Shah, Mehmet Yatbaz, Meng Jia Yang, Mengchao 19729 Zhong, Mia Glaese, Mianna Chen, Michael Jan-ner, Michael Lampe, Michael Petrov, Michael Wu, Michele Wang, Michelle Fradin, Michelle Pokrass, Miguel Castro, Miguel Oom Temudo de Castro, Mikhail Pavlov, Miles Brundage, Miles Wang, Mi-nal Khan, Mira Murati, Mo Bavarian, Molly Lin, Murat Yesildal, Nacho Soto, Natalia Gimelshein, Na-talie Cone, Natalie Staudacher, Natalie Summers, Natan LaFontaine, Neil Chowdhury, Nick Ryder, Nick Stathas, Nick Turley, Nik Tezak, Niko Felix, Nithanth Kudige, Nitish Keskar, Noah Deutsch, Noel Bundick, Nora Puckett, Ofir Nachum, Ola Okelola, Oleg Boiko, Oleg Murk, Oliver Jaffe, Olivia Watkins, Olivier Godement, Owen Campbell-Moore, Patrick Chao, Paul McMillan, Pavel Belov, Peng Su, Pe-ter Bak, Peter Bakkum, Peter Deng, Peter Dolan, Peter Hoeschele, Peter Welinder, Phil Tillet, Philip Pronin, Philippe Tillet, Prafulla Dhariwal, Qiming Yuan, Rachel Dias, Rachel Lim, Rahul Arora, Ra-jan Troll, Randall Lin, Rapha Gontijo Lopes, Raul Puri, Reah Miyara, Reimar Leike, Renaud Gaubert, Reza Zamani, Ricky Wang, Rob Donnelly, Rob Honsby, Rocky Smith, Rohan Sahai, Rohit Ramchan-dani, Romain Huet, Rory Carmichael, Rowan Zellers, Roy Chen, Ruby Chen, Ruslan Nigmatullin, Ryan Cheu, Saachi Jain, Sam Altman, Sam Schoenholz, Sam Toizer, Samuel Miserendino, Sandhini Agar-wal, Sara Culver, Scott Ethersmith, Scott Gray, Sean Grove, Sean Metzger, Shamez Hermani, Shantanu Jain, Shengjia Zhao, Sherwin Wu, Shino Jomoto, Shi-rong Wu, Shuaiqi, Xia, Sonia Phene, Spencer Papay, Srinivas Narayanan, Steve Coffey, Steve Lee, Stew-art Hall, Suchir Balaji, Tal Broda, Tal Stramer, Tao Xu, Tarun Gogineni, Taya Christianson, Ted Sanders, Tejal Patwardhan, Thomas Cunninghman, Thomas Degry, Thomas Dimson, Thomas Raoux, Thomas Shadwell, Tianhao Zheng, Todd Underwood, Todor Markov, Toki Sherbakov, Tom Rubin, Tom Stasi, Tomer Kaftan, Tristan Heywood, Troy Peterson, Tyce Walters, Tyna Eloundou, Valerie Qi, Veit Moeller, Vinnie Monaco, Vishal Kuo, Vlad Fomenko, Wayne Chang, Weiyi Zheng, Wenda Zhou, Wesam Manassra, Will Sheu, Wojciech Zaremba, Yash Patil, Yilei Qian, Yongjik Kim, Youlong Cheng, Yu Zhang, Yuchen He, Yuchen Zhang, Yujia Jin, Yunxing Dai, and Yury Malkov. 2024. Gpt-4o system card. Ofir Press, Muru Zhang, Sewon Min, Ludwig Schmidt, Noah Smith, and Mike Lewis. 2023. Measuring and narrowing the compositionality gap in language mod-els. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2023 , pages 5687–5711, Singa-pore. Association for Computational Linguistics. Cheng Qian, Emre Can Acikgoz, Hongru Wang, Xiusi Chen, Avirup Sil, Dilek Hakkani-Tür, Gokhan Tur, and Heng Ji. 2025. Smart: Self-aware agent for tool overuse mitigation. Qwen, :, An Yang, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chengyuan Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei Huang, Haoran Wei, Huan Lin, Jian Yang, Jianhong Tu, Jianwei Zhang, Jianxin Yang, Jiaxi Yang, Jingren Zhou, Junyang Lin, Kai Dang, Keming Lu, Keqin Bao, Kexin Yang, Le Yu, Mei Li, Mingfeng Xue, Pei Zhang, Qin Zhu, Rui Men, Runji Lin, Tianhao Li, Tianyi Tang, Tingyu Xia, Xingzhang Ren, Xuancheng Ren, Yang Fan, Yang Su, Yichang Zhang, Yu Wan, Yuqiong Liu, Zeyu Cui, Zhenru Zhang, and Zihan Qiu. 2025. Qwen2.5 technical report. Zhihong Shao, Peiyi Wang, Qihao Zhu, Runxin Xu, Junxiao Song, Mingchuan Zhang, Y K Li, Y Wu, and Daya Guo. 2024. DeepSeekMath: Pushing the limits of mathematical reasoning in open language models. 

arXiv [cs.CL] .Yuanhao Shen, Xiaodan Zhu, and Lei Chen. 2024. SMARTCAL: An approach to self-aware tool-use evaluation and calibration. In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing: Industry Track , pages 774– 789, Miami, Florida, US. Association for Computa-tional Linguistics. Huatong Song, Jinhao Jiang, Yingqian Min, Jie Chen, Zhipeng Chen, Wayne Xin Zhao, Lei Fang, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2025a. R1-searcher: Incentivizing the search capability in LLMs via reinforcement learning. 

arXiv [cs.AI] .Huatong Song, Jinhao Jiang, Yingqian Min, Jie Chen, Zhipeng Chen, Wayne Xin Zhao, Lei Fang, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2025b. R1-searcher: Incentivizing the search capability in llms via reinforcement learning. Harsh Trivedi, Niranjan Balasubramanian, Tushar Khot, and Ashish Sabharwal. 2022. MuSiQue: Multi-hop questions via single-hop question composition. 

Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics , 10:539–554. Harsh Trivedi, Niranjan Balasubramanian, Tushar Khot, and Ashish Sabharwal. 2023. Interleaving retrieval with chain-of-thought reasoning for knowledge-intensive multi-step questions. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , Strouds-burg, PA, USA. Association for Computational Lin-guistics. Hongru Wang, Cheng Qian, Wanjun Zhong, Xiusi Chen, Jiahao Qiu, Shijue Huang, Bowen Jin, Mengdi Wang, Kam-Fai Wong, and Heng Ji. 2025a. Otc: Optimal tool calls via reinforcement learning. Liang Wang, Haonan Chen, Nan Yang, Xiaolong Huang, Zhicheng Dou, and Furu Wei. 2025b. Chain-of-retrieval augmented generation. Liang Wang, Nan Yang, Xiaolong Huang, Binxing Jiao, Linjun Yang, Daxin Jiang, Rangan Majumder, and Furu Wei. 2022. Text embeddings by weakly-supervised contrastive pre-training. arXiv [cs.CL] .Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Brian Ichter, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc Le, and Denny Zhou. 2022. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models. arXiv [cs.CL] .19730 Zhilin Yang, Peng Qi, Saizheng Zhang, Yoshua Bengio, William Cohen, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Christo-pher D. Manning. 2018. HotpotQA: A dataset for diverse, explainable multi-hop question answering. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empiri-cal Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 2369–2380, Brussels, Belgium. Association for Com-putational Linguistics. 19731 A Appendix 

A.1 Detailed Step-wise Analysis Procedure 

To empirically measure the rates of over-search and under-search, we conducted a detailed step-wise analysis of the agent’s decision-making process. The interactions of the agent are logged as a se-quence of steps, where each step can involve in-ternal reasoning (thinking), querying a search tool, processing retrieved context, and generating an an-swer. We define specific procedures to identify and quantify each type of sub-optimal search behavior: 1. Step Extraction: We parse the agent’s in-teraction log following the definition in Ap-pendix 2.1. Each distinct thinking process is a decision point and considered a step, typi-cally delineated by <step> and </step> tags (or a similar structured logging format). A "search step" is identified as any step where all three relevant operations—think (the model’s reasoning), search (the search query issued), context (the information retrieved). A "non-search step" typically only consists of think-ing. In this work specifically, the Step Extrac-tion is done by prompting QwQ-32B (Qwen et al., 2025) as we discover that reasoning LLM typically perform better on such task. An example of instruction for step extraction is provided in Appendix A.4. 2. Extraction of Partial Input: For each identi-fied search step, we reconstruct the input that would have been available to the model be-fore it decided to search. This is achieved by taking the complete output generated by the agent from the beginning of the interaction up to and including the content of the think field of the current search step. 3. Querying with Internal Knowledge for Over-search Analysis: For over-search rate measurement, the extracted partial output is then appended with a specific instructional prompt: "I will use my own knowledge to answer this query and provide my answer to this query enclosed in <query_answer> </query_answer> tags." This combined text serves as a new input to the original RL-tuned model (e.g., Search-R1-β-GRPO and Search-R1-GRPO), which is tasked with generating an answer without performing any new search.                                                  

> Model Dataset Search vs. Hops Correct (%) Incorrect (%) Sum (%)
> Less 2.8 19 21.8 R1-Searcher Musique Match 21.8 45.8 67.6 More 1.8 8.8 10.6 Less 000R1-Searcher Bamboogle Match 40.8 52.8 93.6 More 3.2 3.2 6.4 Less 1.8 78.8 Search-R1 Musique Match 12.4 27.6 40 More 8.8 42.4 51.2 Less 0.8 1.6 2.4 Search-R1 Bamboogle Match 28.8 28 56.8 More 12 28.8 40.8

Table 4: Comparison of the number of searches gener-ated vs. annotated hops on Bamboogle and Musique datasets. "More" indicates potential over-search as number of searchers exceeds pre-defined optimal hops. "Less" may indicate a potential under-search. 

The over-search rate is then measured by com-puting the percentage of steps that provide equivalent answer (determined by QwQ-32B in our analysis) for both with and without searching, among all "search steps". 4. Generation of Reference Answer for Under-search Analysis: For each identified non-search step, the original query or sub-query that the agent was attempting to answer at that point is presented to a more powerful, state-of-the-art language model (e.g., ChatGPT-4o (OpenAI et al., 2024)) with recent knowledge cutoff date. This model generates a "refer-ence answer," which is assumed to be of high quality. The reference answer obtained is com-pared with the actual answer generated by the agent for that non-search step. The under-search rate is calculated as the proportion of non-search steps where the agent’s answer does not match (determined by QwQ-32B in our analysis) the reference answer, quantify-ing how often the agent fails to search when doing so would have likely led to a more ac-curate or complete answer. 

A.2 Search Frequency vs. Optimal Hops 

One indicator of potential over-search is when the number of search queries generated by an agent exceeds the optimal number of reasoning hops re-quired to answer a question. A significantly higher search count often points to redundant information gathering. For this experiment, we only use the test set from Bamboogle (Press et al., 2023) and MuSiQue (Trivedi et al., 2022) as they are the only two datasets providing pre-defined number of hops for each test sample. 19732 R1-Searcher exhibits a tendency to perform more searches than hops in 10.6% of Musique cases and 6.4% of Bamboogle cases. Search-R1 shows a more pronounced tendency, with 51.2% (Musique) and 40.8% (Bamboogle) of cases issu-ing more searches than annotated hops. This result suggests that models trained with different methods do not inherently solve over-search and might even exacerbate it under certain configurations if not properly guided. While "Less" searches than hops might indicate efficient reasoning or under-search, the "More" category strongly suggests instances of over-searching. 

A.3 Instruction for Model Input 

Answer the given question. You must con-duct reasoning inside <think> and </think> first every time you get new information. After reasoning, if you find you lack some knowledge, you can call a search engine by <search> query </search>, and it will return the top searched results between <informa-tion> and </information>. You can search as many times as you want. If you find no further external knowledge needed, you can directly provide the answer inside <answer> and </answer> without detailed illustrations. For example, <answer> Beijing </answer>. Question: question. 

A.4 Instruction for Step Extraction Objective: Your task is to parse a complete interaction log from a reasoning agent. Your goal is to segment the log into a chronological sequence of steps and structure the output for each step into a consistent JSON format. 

Core Methodology: A reasoning trajectory is a sequence of steps, s1, s 2, . . . , s N . Each step, st, involves a reasoning component, rt.The sub-answer, at, which is the conclusion of step st, is reflected in the reasoning component of the next step, rt+1 . You must follow this look-ahead method to determine the conclu-sion for each step. 

Key Definitions: Search Step: A step where the agent uses a search tool. It must include areasoning block ( <think> ), a search query ( <search> ), and retrieved con-text ( <information> ). 

Non-Search Step: A step where the agent re-lies only on its internal knowledge and prior context. It typically only includes a reasoning block ( <think> ). 

Conclusion: The sub-answer or piece of in-formation the agent generates or confirms at the end of a step ( st), which contributes to the final answer. 

Instructions: 

1. Parse the entire interaction log into a chronological sequence of steps. A new step begins with each distinct reason-ing block (e.g., content within <think> 

tags). 2. For each step ( st), extract the following components: • reasoning: The content from the 

<think> block of the current step. • query: The content from the 

<search> block of the current step. If not present, use null .• information: The content from the 

<information> block of the cur-rent step. If not present, use null .• conclusion: The specific sub-answer ( at) produced as a result of the current step’s actions. Crucially, you must identify this conclusion by analyzing the reasoning block of the following step ( rt+1 ), where it is first used or stated. For the final step in the trajectory, the con-clusion is the final answer itself. 3. For each step, construct a JSON object containing the extracted components. 4. Present the final output as a sequence of 

<step> blocks, with each block contain-ing the JSON object for that step. 

Required Output Format: Your entire out-put must be a sequence of <step> blocks. 

Example for a Search Step:   

> 1<step>
> 2{

19733 0 25 50 75 100 125 150 175 200 

> Step
> 0.300
> 0.325
> 0.350
> 0.375
> 0.400
> 0.425
> 0.450
> 0.475
> Reward
> Search-R1-GRPO
> Search-R1- -GPRO (ours)

Figure 4: Training Rewards for Search-R1-GRPO and Search-R1-β-GRPO.  

> 3

"reasoning": "The user is asking for the capital of France. Ishould search for this information to be certain.",  

> 4

"query": "capital of France",  

> 5

"information": "Paris is the capital and most populous city of France...",  

> 6

"conclusion": "The capital of France is Paris."  

> 7

} 

> 8

</step> 

Example for a Non-Search Step:  

> 1

<step>  

> 2

{ 

> 3

"reasoning": "Now that I know the capital is Paris, I can formulate the final answer.",  

> 4

"query": null,  

> 5

"information": null,  

> 6

"conclusion": "The final answer is Paris."  

> 7

} 

> 8

</step> 

A.5 Training Configuration & Rewards 

We train Search-R1-GPRO and Search-R1-β-GPRO for 200 steps, with a learning rate of 1e-6 and batch size of 512. For a question, we produce 5 generations with temperature of 1 to form a GPRO group. For the search engine, for fair compari-son, we also use 2018 Wikipedia dump (Karpukhin et al., 2020) as the knowledge source and E5 (Wang et al., 2022) as the retriever as Search-R1 and for each search query, top-3 documents are returned. Our training are conducted on two A100 GPUs. 19734